The key to a dream developer career: Learn to sell yourself

The engineers at the top aren’t usually technical geniuses.

They got there because they know how to sell themselves.

If you want to get ahead in your software career, you have to develop some skills in sales. After all, every interview, promotion, or job change is an exercise in selling your skills & negotiating a higher price.

Learn the tactics of demonstrating competence, generating strategy, and negotiating new roles.

That’s how you grow in your career.

The importance of sales
Software developers historically underrate sales skills when it comes to their careers.

But learning another framework or building another project won’t get you your dream job.

At the end of the day, conversations with other people are how you get new roles, promotions, responsibilities, and raises.

There’s a great quote that I think about all the time:

“The quality of your life can be measured by how many uncomfortable conversations you’re willing to have.”

It’s true. These conversations are difficult. Asking for a raise is uncomfortable and scary. Interviewing for a new job is nerve wracking.

I had anxiety attacks the last time I interviewed.

Ultimately, getting through those difficult conversations unlocked a new level to my career. Another quote comes to mind:

Everything you want is on the other side of fear

Exercises for developers
Hopefully, I’ve convinced you. Developers who can sell themselves go farther, faster in their careers.

Luckily, a little bit of preparation and practice can go a long way.

Here are some ideas:

Rehearse! — So many developers decide they’ll just improvise whenever they’re in an interview or negotiation. DON’T! Instead, practice what you’ll say. Craft it carefully. Trim it down. Make it sing. Tell a beautiful story about your life, career, and how you’re the perfect solution to the company’s problems.
Get a coach — I paid for a negotiation coach the last time I interviewed for a new job. It was an incredible relief to have an expert coach in my corner. She gave me exact scripts of what to say. Even more importantly, she told me what not to say in the negotiations.
Cultivate leads — You want to have warmed up the conversation before you ever have it. For a promotion, this means asking your boss months ahead of time “What would knocking it out of the park look like in my role?” Keep them updated and make it clear you’ll expect to talk about a promotion. For new roles, this means getting referrals and direct outreach to target companies where you’d like to interview.
Create content — Having a blog, YouTube, or podcast with technical content positions you as an authority in the space. The marketing benefits of publishing work in public can’t be understated.