Don’t Fall Into The Trap Most Part-Time Creators Do. It’ll Be Your Undoing.
The secret to longevity on the side

Photo by Yonas Bekele on Unsplash
The loneliest job in the world is creating online.

It might be even lonelier for those of us that create alongside our full-time jobs. Not many people understand why we have the desire to create a scale alongside demanding jobs.

But for us it makes total sense. It’s something we’ve built up over years, it’s become ingrained in our lives to create online.

But it wasn’t always like this, if you’re just starting out your journey as a part-time creator, this is the best decision you’ll ever make.

The danger of churn
Building alongside full-time work can be a slog.

The danger of churn is that it becomes boring and when it becomes boring you are dead in the water.

It can, if you’re not careful, turn into a numbers game. It did for me. You have a list of things that you need to get done in a day and it becomes a churn of boredom:

Tweet x2 daily
Post on LinkedIn
DM other writers
Write an article about habits
Day after day. The same thing is on repeat. Your to-do list basically writes itself. It never changes.

Missed opportunities to inject happiness
The creative world is about sustainability. You need to show up long enough for people to take notice. If I look at all my favorite writers, they’ve been creating for nearly a decade.

That’s the kind of commitment it takes.

There is no such thing as an overnight success. If you want to be around long enough for people to pay attention then you need to find ways to keep this thing interesting.

If you don’t take opportunities to inject happiness you’re missing the point entirely.

The best decision you’ll make as a part-time creator
Here’s what a fun creator journey looks like:

You wake up and grab a warm coffee. You sit down with a notepad by your side, ready to fill it full of headline ideas. Overnight and this morning your mind has been spilling over with ideas. You can’t wait.

You sip and you write. Idea after idea. You circle one idea and decide to write an article about it. You get turn your attention to your research. You fall deep into the crooks of the internet, amazed at what you find. You tap, you read, you sip. It’s all quite magical.

Most fall into a different way of working through, their creator journey seems much less fun and far too serious:

You wake up, overwhelmed by your to-do list. In the next 2 hours you need to write a series of Tweets, and an article, reply to your DMs, look through your emails, and come up with article ideas for tomorrow. Panicked you chuck out one Tweet after another. Barely remembering what you thought about two minutes ago.

Pick the fun creator journey, please.

Choosing fun over anything
The thing about creating alongside your full-time thing is there’s a lot to be considered. But there are two things that remain true: 1. you are choosing to spend your free time doing this 2. this is a long game.

The only thing then that makes an ounce of sense is to have fun creating. It’s to be kind to yourself, create at your own pace, and do the things that make you happy.

This idea of slogging it out to 2 am in the morning to then wake up at 6 am to do it all over again is frankly unhealthy. Those people might get there quicker than you do but I bet they’re not having a good time doing it.

Who wants to win the race burnt out with nobody waiting at the finish line?

You don’t have to choose that life if you don’t want to. Instead, you can dial down the ambition and dial up the fun. You don’t have to self-made in the next 6 weeks.

Here’s a different version of the events
Instead, what if you just created it online because it made you feel good? Over the years you got better and people started noticing. 5 years in you started taking on clients, building relationships, and finding new ways to make money from your craft.

Sure there are days when it feels less fun to make money from this thing you love but also, you can barely believe you get to make money from this thing you love.

You build over years, you laugh, you cry, you optimize for fun and you see where it all goes.

In the end, you realize there is no race. It’s a game with no exit.

Join hundreds that subscribe to Part-time Creators Club free here. I’ll send you one tip on a Saturday up your creator game.