The Neighbor Sprayed My Mom With Water From His Garden Hose While She Read Her Newspaper on the Porch
With neighbors like these, who needs enemies?

Photo by Ludovica Dri on Unsplash
For years, my mother enjoyed the same relaxing post-dinner ritual. After washing the dishes and putting the kitchen in order, she’d take the daily newspaper out onto the front porch and sit on the concrete steps to read in the late afternoon sunlight.

The owner of the property next door developed his own late afternoon ritual, and it didn’t seem like a coincidence. Every afternoon like clockwork, as soon as my mother settled onto her perch on the porch to read her newspaper, the neighbor watered his vegetable garden.

The neighbor would laugh and smirk as he liberally sprayed my mother and her newspaper with water in the guise of watering his vegetables.

My mother didn’t say a word to the man. She went about her business for another week, sitting on the porch with her paper and being showered by the neighbor’s garden hose. It was long enough to make sure the man’s actions were intentional and not accidental. By the end of the week, my mother had no doubts.

“He was clearly spraying me with water on purpose,” my mother told me. “So then I decided on the spur of the moment to water my flower garden, which was adjacent to his vegetable garden. My water hose slipped, and it got him a ‘little’ wet. He didn’t flinch or complain, but the next time I sat on my porch to read the newspaper, he stayed inside the house.”

It’s amazing what a little imaginative garden irrigation can do to improve neighborhood relations.

What my mother did was what is known as a “passive-aggressive” act. It’s a way of getting back at someone without overtly confronting them. It’s something that we’ve all probably done at one time or another in our lives.

While passive-aggressive behavior is often portrayed as a negative trait, there are actually some benefits to engaging in this type of behavior.

For one, passive-aggressive behavior can be a way of assertively standing up for oneself without getting into an altercation. By using passive-aggressive tactics, my mother was able to get her point across to the neighbor without having to resort to name-calling or worse.

I’m not condoning it; I’m just saying it worked.

My mother taught me an important life lesson with that story: the best revenge is often simply to out-compete your adversary. There’s no need to get into a fight or argue; just beat them at their own game. She didn’t make the rules, but she certainly played by them.

You may think I should have directly confronted the neighbor. After all, he was spraying water on my mother when she was sitting on her porch in her own yard reading a newspaper. This is true, and I am sad that I didn’t directly confront him, but I was afraid of causing a scene. What if you were in my position? Would you have been brave enough to say something directly? Comments are welcome.