4 Small Things People Do That Make Me Irrationally Angry
Don’t be that person.

Editorial rights purchased via iStock Photos
It’s not me.

It’s them. I’m sure of it. They are experts at finding ways to be annoying.

It all comes back to consideration — using shared spaces in a non-prickish way, making life a bit easier for everyone.

These things piss me off on a regular basis.

The gym population problems
Take a look at this picture. Do you see anything wrong?


Via IMG
A lot is wrong, actually. One of two things is happening.

One, this guy is using nine pieces of equipment that he doesn’t need. He appears to be building a tent out of dumbells.
Two, someone isn’t putting their equipment away. It’s a huge safety hazard.
The guy beside him is probably asking if he can “work in”.

The seated guy is probably saying, “I have nine more sets left.”

I see lots of this stuff at local gyms. And even if you never go to the gym, it’s a good microcosm for everyday life.

If you don’t throw your trash away, put your equipment back where it belongs— you are just passing that chore along to some unfortunate person.

If you’d like to score small points with the universe, pick up any stray trash or feral dumbbells.

I have always reasoned that we are at the gym to burn calories. Why not burn a few calories and put your equipment back?

Then again, these are the same places where I see people arguing over who can park closest to the gym.

The problem with airplanes
In the spring of 1991, the Ethiopian government was close to being overthrown during a brutal civil war.

In the aftermath of that power shift, a population of Ethiopian Jews was at risk. Yes — there is an ancient population of Jews from Ethiopia.

Israel, deeply concerned about their well-being, and them being slaughtered, orchestrated an emergency evacuation dubbed Operation Solomon.

In 1991, a special airplane was sent to a nearby strip. When the airline arrived, thousands upon thousands of desperate Ethiopians were waiting.

The airplane had most of the insides taken out to reduce weight.

These people had very little belongings with them. They rushed to the airport, riding in wagons, by horse, and a large number of them, by foot, for a chance to board and escape:


Via Wikimedia Commons
All in all, 1088 passengers filed onto the airplane — setting a new world record. Notably, 2 babies were born during the flight.

I’m also going to wing it and guess this was the first time on an airplane for many of these folks.

I share this story because airplanes are such a hotbed for humanity’s worst habits. Good things to come of them.

Yet out in regular Airlineville, you’d think it’s the first time flying for many.

For example, getting off the plane is a very simple, fair procedure. You let the row in front of you get off. Then you get off.

Yet I can’t tell you how many times I’ve almost seen someone get bulldozed (including an elderly woman) because some numbskull wasn’t willing to wait 1.2 seconds for her to stand up and step into the aisle.

The grocery dilemma
I sometimes see people turn their grocery cart horizontally and abandon it in the middle of an aisle, jamming it like a giant meatball in the artery of my patience.

I feel a primal urge to beat my chest, flip their cart and hang from the ceiling like King Kong.

These are the same people who drift in and out of lanes without using their turn signal.

They are the ones who stand shoulder to shoulder with three friends, walking down a sidewalk, causing everyone to loop wide to get around them.

Their kids are the ones scissor kicking your seat from behind — and little does that kid know — he’s being subconsciously trained to leave his grocery cart in that aisle, fulfilling a long legacy of inconsideration.

The culture math problem
We used to live down the street from an otherwise lovely couple.

We liked having dinner and meeting up. But I eventually had to call things off and stop hanging out with them.

They were always, always late.

We’d set up a time for dinner, 6 PM. We’d arrive and sit at this dinner table until 6:15 PM tapping feet.

Look, life happens. We are all late sometimes.

Yet this happened over and over. We’d sit by ourselves for 10–20 minutes every single time and I began to lose my cool over it.

My then-girlfriend said, “Why don’t we just tell them a time that is 15 minutes earlier than the actual dinner?”

I said, “That’s not normal behavior. We are all in our 30s. I’m not going to start lying just to get this to stop.”

Eventually, I just stopped planning things with them.

Someone once told me that punctuality is a cultural thing. I would argue it is a respect thing.

Even if someone is only a little bit late each time, that little bit is eroding someone else's patience.

If you say we are meeting at 3. Let’s both do everything we can to meet at 3.

The takeaway
Please honor the space you share with these other lovely humans.

Please don’t leave your 70, 65, 60, and 25 lb dumbbells strewn across the gym. Please let the old lady in front of you get off the plane first.

If we can all just endeavor to be a little less annoying (myself included), this world will be a good bit more tolerable.