I quit my developer job for 3 months this year to move to Mexico

Burnout led to a mini-retirement. I was happily unemployed.

How many of my regular readers know that I was jobless just a few months ago? Are you considering a similar move?

Perhaps you should…

Quitting my senior dev job
At a fast-growing startup, I was a senior developer and tech lead.

One of the early employees, I learned a ton from helping to scale the product. My experience there was great. I made amazing friends with my teammates — who I still see regularly. And we built something really cool and useful for finance professionals.

I also reached my limits.

All the context switching, constant fires, and technical requirements were dizzying. I worked on many hard problems, in different domains, all at once.

The flood was overwhelming.

Deciding to quit
For about 6 months, I deliberated whether (and when) to quit.

Ultimately, my decision came down to these factors:

I was unhappy pushing so hard for a sustained amount of time
My savings grew enough to make quitting feasible
I knew I could make more money elsewhere, probably while working less (or at least less hard)
I felt confident in my ability to interview for a new position
For my happiness, I needed the time off
It felt crazy, but one day in April I just did it.

I asked my manager and the CTO if we could chat. Then, gave my 2 weeks notice.

It was that easy, almost anticlimactic. After months of deliberation, the big moment was a 10 minute conversation. They understood my viewpoint, asked if there was any way they could get me to stay, and eventually wished me well.

3 months in Mexico
My girlfriend and I had a cool opportunity to move to Mexico City.


We subleased an apartment from an acquaintance. One day, we got on a plane and had moved to the largest city in North America.

It’s an incredible place, and exactly the change of scene I wanted.


Totally different context. Speaking Spanish all day. Not writing any code. Getting back into the habit of publishing articles regularly.

In Mexico, I started writing daily. It has been the best thing I’ve done for my business and career.

What do I value?
Taking time off gave me time to evaluate what I want from my career.

I spent lots of time thinking about my values. What type of meaning and purpose do I want to build in my career? How can I make sure my next job pushes me in new ways, while also doing something personally fulfilling?

From that soul searching, I landed on helping to solve climate.

Near the end of our time in Mexico, I began a job search. The goal was to find a job working in climate change. During that time, I wrote extensively here on Medium about the experience:

Technical interviews are insulting
5 ways software developers can fight climate change
The title of “tech lead” is turmoil. Is it worth it?
Developer job search — how to get interviews
15 signs you should quit your developer job
I had anxiety attacks while interviewing for staff engineer
Worth it?
Absolutely. A career break is an incredible gift to give yourself.

Being able to take such a break is an incredible privilege. If you can afford it in your situation, I highly recommend it.

The time away from full-time work puts things into much clearer perspective.

Daily list
I send an email to thousands of software developers every morning.

Join the daily list to get curated content on growing your developer career.

Want to read more of my writing? There’s a big list of articles above. Just scroll up.