My Brother’s Best Friend & The Friends With Benefits | Ch.2

Will
We won.

It was the big game of the season and our team, Blue Falcons, won the championship.

But the boys deserved it. We all worked really hard for this one.

It was a tough game also. It could’ve gone the other way just as quickly. They gave us a good game.

It was Saturday night and Hailey and I had a date tonight. I picked her up in my sports car early. She looked as beautiful as ever and I told her so. But she wasn’t as friendly as I’d hoped she’d be tonight.

I could sense something was wrong again. That’s how things have been lately. No matter what I’d do I’d always make her angry somehow.

I just wished things could go back to how it was in the beginning. When it seemed like there wasn’t anything I could ever do wrong and she looked at me as if I was the only person in the room.

When we got to the restaurant, there was already a crowd outside.

“How did they find out?” She asked.

I gave her an apologetic look.

“I might have sort of posted about our anniversary on social media.”

“Will!”

“I’m sorry!” I said. “I just wanted to send you a special message.”

“You could’ve told me that in person!” She said. “Not announce to the whole world our plans!”

“I just wanted to share with the world how happy I am to have you as my girl.”

She crossed her arms.

“Get me out of here!” She said.

“But, babe we had reservations…”

“Just get me out!”

I reversed out of our parking spot and drove away.

“Are you happy now?” I said. “Where are we gonna find reservations now?”

“Forget about the damn dinner, Niall!” She said.

I sighed.

“Okay, so what do you want to do?”

“I want to make all of this disappear,” she said. “I’m so sick and tired of all the damn crowds everywhere we go.”

“Babe,” I said. “You know I can’t help that. It comes with the job.”

She didn’t meet my eyes.

“Sometimes I just wish you could be…”

“Someone else?” I finished.

She met my eyes.

“I never signed up for this,” she said. “I never…”

“Hailey, you knew this was how it was going to be. I’m a professional soccer player for god’s sake!”

“Yeah, but I didn’t know you would flirt so much with every single fan you meet.”

I frowned.

“Is this about that girl at the game last night?”

“Yes, Niall!” She yelled. “It is about her.”

“Unbelievable,” I said shaking my head. “I told you nothing happened there.”

“I saw how you looked at her, Niall.”

“I wasn’t even looking at her!”

“Just forget it,” she said. “Take me home.”

“But we just got here!” I said.

“Now!”

So we drove in silence angry and frustrated at each other. When I stopped at her apartment building, she said,

“I didn’t want to do it this way but I just can’t take it anymore.”

“What are you talking about?” I said.

She met my eyes.

“It’s over, Niall.”

She shook her head.

“I don’t want to be a couple anymore.”

I looked at her in shock.

“You’re breaking up with me,” I said. “Because of a fan?”

“Not just a fan, Will. Because of everything.”

She paused then said,

“You never belonged to me. You belong to the world. I can’t live with that.”

“So you’re just throwing me away?” I said. “You said you loved me.”

“No one can love someone who the whole world loved first,” she said.

Then she picked up her purse and opened the door and slammed it shut.

She didn’t look back.

“Hailey!” I said.

She walked away.

“Hailey, wait!” I said.

But she opened the door to her building and disappeared inside.

I slammed my hand against the steering wheel,

“Damn it!”

As I was driving away I thought about her words.

“No one can love someone who the whole world loved first.”

Was that my problem?

How many times has this happened to me before?

Would I always lose the one I love because of my reputation?

Hi guys!

I hope you’re enjoying the book so far. If you’d like to support me in coffee and cookies, I’d appreciate it if you’d check out my Ko-Fi for some extra goodies at a small amount per month. But whether you join or not, your support means the world to me. Thanks!
