Why Developers Leave Google
Yes! Sometimes even Google employees leave. And It’s becoming more common day by day.

Photo by Kai Wenzel on Unsplash
You can find countless videos on YouTube about people’s motivational tales and tips for getting into Google. Apparently, Google is a lucrative place.

The tech giant that offers a median salary of $160,000, free food, healthcare benefits, parental leaves, retirement benefits, and even haircuts so that you don’t waste time in a barbershop has to let its employee go. But why? In this article, we will find out.

Internal politics
Google’s employees are the ‘best of the best.’ It hires the most capable and sharp brains from around the world. Yet, they become tired of the hierarchy and the politics.

Michael Lynch, an ex-Googler, said he did his best to stick to the company but failed to do so. There was no scope to become promoted. Krystal Brik, the former product marketing manager at Google, felt the same way when she left her 6 figure job. Not just Michael and Krystal, hundreds of ex googler have said there is a ‘House of Cards’ style of politics inside the company.

Insane competition
Employees are sorted by which level they are in once they step foot at Google. There are 12 levels in total. Level 5 is where you become a “senior software engineer,” and things get really serious from here.

When you climb to level 8, you become “principal,” and by level 9, you’re a “distinguished software engineer.” You become Google Fellow at level 10, and if you can climb to level 11, you’re as important as Sanjay Ghemawat and Jeff Dean. They might call you at their family party, who knows!

This is a very long journey that turns many employees off.

Employees don’t feel valued
The problem is if you’re in level 5 or 6, and if you are on a different ladder, let’s say business ladder instead of engineering, you’re doomed as engineering pays more. Many employees make this mistake and discover they are on a different ladder. Ladder swap is extremely difficult, and even if you do, you will be demoted.

Now let’s talk about employees who are below level 5. They are overqualified for their jobs. After months of rigorous hiring, many do mundane tasks, such as removing YouTube videos and things like that.

Moreover, their contribution has little effect on Google’s products as the company is massive, with thousands of employees and branches. It creates Job dissatisfaction, and many employees leave Google for better career options and growth.

Difficult hiring process
Google celebrates its hiring process. Many applicants find Google’s interview process a confusing black box due to its length. It is more challenging to prepare for the interview when you don’t know what is ahead.

The Google interview process lasts two to three months and consists of four to nine interviews. This is far longer than many other firms. Former employees have been very active on the internet, sharing their bitter experiences during the hiring process.

Furthermore, Some of Google’s recruiters aren’t well organized and don’t follow good practices. The company’s recruiter tools ATS and gHire, lack functionality sometimes. Employees must go through a tiresome journey at the very beginning, affecting their jobs later.

Unhappy about pay!!
Google’s annual employee survey reveals that only 46% of employees are satisfied with their salary and think it’s competitive compared to comparable jobs at other firms.

64% of employees indicated their performance is reflected in their compensation, a three-point decrease from the previous year, according to CNBC.

The dark side of the perks
Ken, a former employee at Google, revealed the perk trap of this company on TikTok. You might wonder what’s wrong with those mouth-watering meals, commute service, free Wi-Fi, and indoor games.

According to Ken, these are sheer marketing to attract employees. Google serves three meals daily but doesn’t serve dinner between 6 to 6.30 pm. By the time employees take benefit of all these three meals, it’s already 7 pm, making them stay longer. It takes 1 hour to commute from SF to Google camp, and the shuttle has free Wi-Fi.

Employees have nothing to do but work while they’re on the bus. If you add that extra hour for the meal and 2 hours of commute time, an employee usually works 3 hours more than usual. Some agree with this theory, and others don’t. We leave this to your judgment.

Work pressure
Research on workplace stress done by Payscale.com indicates that 53% of Google employees consider their jobs extremely stressful.

Many former employees jokingly say that Google acts like a demanding girlfriend. Even though the company offers various stress relievers like massage, meditation rooms, and insurance covering therapy, how much does it help when employees are constantly frowned upon by aggressive deadlines? When the entire team works hard to meet the deadline, going to the meditation room and relaxing isn’t an option.

Google employees stick to them for an average of 1.9 years. During this short period, many employees go through a bitter experience that suddenly turns their dream into a fairy tale.

Hold on. Google isn’t all bad. This company welcomes innovation and creativity more than any other firm. Most employees did extraordinarily well after leaving Google with the experience they gathered there. It left a significant impact on their life.