Beating Procrastination Isn’t Enough. There’s One More Step.
How to close the loop.

Editorial rights purchased via iStock Photos
My classmate was the epitome of procrastination hell.

I still don’t know how he did it.

We were in grad school for business and we had huge papers due every eight weeks. They required intensive research and analysis. You couldn’t just wing it. Even worse, we all had full-time jobs too.

My classmate would wait until the day before the paper was due and start from zero. He’d pull an all-nighter writing the paper — after working a day at his job. Then, go to work the next day without any sleep.

He’d get a mediocre grade. He’d underperform at work for several days and his sleep cycle went to hell.

For eight weeks, he’d let the assignment hangover his head and haunt him.

It was all the worst parts of procrastination combined. He scared me straight.

There’s too much noise around productivity tips.

Yes, many of your problems would be solved simply by starting, but it isn’t that simple is it?

There’s another step in the process. You must close the loop.

After you beat procrastination
When you look back at your life, you tend to group years in clusters, and then assign labels to them.

“That was a bad time during my marriage.”

“I was flying high with my career back then.”

When I look back at my life, I find my worst years were me not doing the basic things right. I was giving in to instant gratification rather than stepping through the fire when I needed to.

I finally realized that delaying gratification was the ultimate expression of self-love.

When we give in to temptation, it’s actially us giving in to fear and anxiety.

We are afraid of falling short of perfection. Above all, we are afraid of the pain.

Pain is inevitable.

You either experience the pain of maintaining discipline or the lingering pain of regret.

Remember: The pain of discipline carries a far greater upside.

However, there is one final step.

Manage the actual task
If you allow something to be completely miserable, and you lean into that misery, the odds of doing that thing again are much lower.

For example, I went to the gym today. I caught myself checking the clock constantly while doing cardio.

I vowed to look away from the clock. Then, within 2 minutes, I caught myself staring at the timer on my stair stepper. So I put my towel over it.

Clock watching feeds a mindset of instant gratification. It makes your tasks more difficult.

I invoked an old trick from my college swimming days: I zoned out.


Picture from my swimming days. For a school newspaper.
Back when I grinded through unbelievably difficult and long training sessions, I learned to lower the stimulation in my brain and go into an almost meditative state.

Somewhere along the way, I learned that the more you think about the exertion, the more you magnify the pain. It’s a bit like getting a shot. If you watch the needle go into your arm, it tends to hurt more.

Zoning out the pain matters in a huge way that I don’t think people fully appreciate.

If you dissect every moment of exertion and feel sorry for yourself, the experience will be mentally bookmarked as a punch in the gut.

If you bookmark something as a punch in the gut, your anti-procrastination efforts will break down over time — because the task is a punch in the gut.

Nobody wants that.

The highest performers at my office were always the people who maintained — at a minimum — a neutral attitude towards work. Some were very upbeat.

Very rarely were they moping around and complaining about everything. There were certainly complainers at the office. But they didn’t have leadership potential.

One of my favorite coworkers, Alyssa, was always positive. She was Wharton educated, worked her tail off, and managed to keep a great attitude throughout the day while treating everyone with respect.

She was my aspirational figure.

Think about it another this way. You should aspire to make your child and elderly selves proud.

We should do the hard work that gets approval from our elder self, while honoring the spirit and joy that was so common in our youth.

We are alive. We have the opportunity to work and pursue our dreams. This is a blessing not afforded to all.

Lastly, close the loop
You’ve beat procrastination.

You’ve done the hard thing without making the process a miserable.

You’ve left the gym, office, or library after grinding.

Now — reward yourself. After a hard workout, I usually go to Smoothie King, or somewhere reasonably healthy to eat.

Then, I mentally celebrate having done something difficult. I remind myself of the bottlenecks and miserable points that I pushed past and muted from ruining my experience.

This closes the performance loop.

This isn’t intended as a flex but it might seem that way: Each year, I publish more than 250,000 words.

It’s not because I’m any better than you, or more talented in some way.

Quite the opposite.

I have a deep propensity for laziness within me. It is a dark storm that sits perpetually on my horizon. I am completely terrified of it because I’ve felt its grip.

I just manage myself and continually close the loop, and plug any cracks in that loop as they pop up.

It keeps the storm at bay.

Recap for memory
The desire for instant gratification comes from uncomfortable feelings we want squash.

It is the exit sign from a difficult cram session, the “pause workout” button on the treadmill, or the casual thought, “I’ll start my writing hobby tomorrow.”

Mute the instant gratification signal. Do the hard thing without making it any harder than it needs to be.

Then, celebrate having done the hard thing.

Be proud of yourself and create positive associations with each task.

Discipline is a religion that can be embraced and enjoyed.