The Experience Gap Killed My Relationship
A true story.

Editorial rights purchased via iStock Photos
We were doomed from the get-go.

If I went back in time and it was my job to save “me” from getting dumped, I’d have been of little use.

That relationship was on death row before it began.

She was beautiful, smart, and confident without even knowing it. I was a late bloomer and still felt out of place.

I couldn’t comprehend this modelesque brunette showing up every day. I’d open the door. She’d beam a big smile, “Hey!”

And my heart would start racing. It’s all so stupid.

These days I don’t really care enough to be that insecure which is why it’s strange looking back now.

“Why the f#ck were you so worked up? Chill bro.”

I suppose this is the double-edged sword of getting older. You stop caring about most things and gain confidence. But you are closer to dying.

She did all the work and had to wave a giant glowing sign to get me to ask her out. Our first kiss was basically a hostage situation, “Sean kisses me — or everyone dies.”

From then on, and from the moment I saw her I’d freeze up and be like, “OK cool. Act normal. Act normal. Don’t say anything stupid.”

It’s all a bit embarrassing.

Imagine someone is already your girlfriend and already likes you and conveys that on the clearest of terms. Yet you are still squirming around like a dying earthworm on a scorched sidewalk.

We were at a gas station once. I was looking at candy and some older man came and said, (while she was in another aisle), “You’re one lucky man. When God created her <gesturing to her aisle> — he was just showing off!”

I said thanks, a bit sheepishly.

I should have been flattered — strangers were complimenting me on how beautiful my girlfriend was.

Instead, my immediate instinct was to compare myself to her in this weird competitive way.

I still saw myself as a bullied teenager, whose incongruent puberty had brought unwanted attention.

She’d come out of the womb beautiful. Her mother is a professional model (still to this day). Her father is a handsome photographer. She’d had boyfriends since middle school (hell, probably earlier).

Change takes time. And even beyond this superficial garbage, we tend to live in the shadows of our former selves.

We give trauma too much power over the present moment. We let failures hang over us like old coats that no longer fit. We wear them because it’s what we know and are used to.

She eventually dumped me over a phone call. She asked, “Should we just be friends?”

It felt like a punch in the gut. It was a question but not really. She said things had gotten weird.

She was right. We’d been friends beforehand and the moment we became “more than”, my spine turned into jelly.

The witty jokes stopped. The fluid, authentic behavior vanished.

Most relationships die because of a gap. A gap in expectations, earnings, or feelings. A gap in moods. Any gap will due. Ours was one of experience.

I felt the other end of it later; I dated a woman who pushed me to the brink of my sanity with her immaturity. She constantly gossiped and lost her cool over trivial drama. I ended things and vowed never to date a younger woman again.

I’ve been dumped because I didn’t make enough money.

I’ve been dumped for being a blind and inconsiderate asshole. That dumpage did me some good.

I dumped a girl because she kept waking me up in the middle of the night.

I got dumped for being too introverted (to a fault).

I dumped a girl because she was annoying. I’ve probably been dumped for the same reason.

I was dumped because I didn’t drive out to see a girl enough. I lowered my Tinder radius after that one.

Post-mortems aren’t fun but they are agents of change.

Which is why I get so frustrated with the endless articles bashing exes. I see ten articles in a row by one author about how toxic a partner was, and no self-examination.

Really? You did nothing wrong in all this? This world needs more humility and self-reflection.

Years went by. I may have overcorrected on a few issues. I had to lick my wounds a few times.

With time, I’ve realized that each person —every person reading this — no matter how impressive, beautiful, brilliant, or charismatic — is just another human being looking out through their eyes at you.

They have their own fears and insecurities, their own self-doubts just like anyone else. This is why confidence is so attractive.

The whole idea of “leagues” and “punching above our weight” is, in many ways, a mirage. It’s superficial nonsense.

I’ve found that when you carry yourself in a way that shows self-love, rather than faking you are hot shit or some other person you are not, you project authenticity.

It is magnetic. And it extends well beyond dating.

This means being OK with whether someone likes you or not either way. This calm acceptance has worked wonders in bringing the right people into my life. I don’t feel the need to pander or cater to everyone else's whims or morph to get someone to like me.

If I could pass one piece of advice: stop all the destructive internal dialogue. Stop chasing approval. Delete any thoughts that hurt your confidence.

Be yourself and run the risk of someone liking you for who you actually are.