You Should Play Dumb. No, Seriously.
A few quick tips.

Editorial rights purchased via iStock Photos
People rarely play dumb during an interview.

And for good reason. But there are times when downplaying your knowledge will save you time, energy, and headaches.

Being highly competent can be the biggest source of headaches.

In war and with prisoner
In 1967, Doug Hegdahl was on a recon mission in the Vietnam War.

His boat cruised along the river, and as he it did, a battle broke out and he was thrown into the water. He panicked and swam for shore.

Unfortunately, Doug swam towards the Vietcong side of shore.

They greeted him with prompt beating and dragged him ashore screaming.

Doug was tied up and thrown in a cage. They debated on whether to execute him.

As they interrogated Doug, he realized they were trying to determine his usefulness.

He gave goofy, incoherent answers, talking crazy. Then he repeatedly shouted, “No water buffalo!” In Vietnam at that time, owning a water buffalo was a sign of moderate wealth. He was saying he was poor.

Being poor was good. The Vietcong hated wealthy people.

His rambling gained him the nickname, “The Incredibly Stupid One”.

And while other US soldiers were tortured and killed, the Vietcong felt too bad for him. They thought he was an American version of the poor, dumb man forced into the front line in a war.

Little did they know, he was gathering information. During his years in prison, he memorized the names of 200 prisoners of war, along with the intimate details of the enemy base.

During a negotiation, the Vietcong chose him as their release thinking he was a simpleton and no threat.

Doug got home and immediately gave a press conference. He told the US of those prisoners, and their freedom was obtained.


Via Wikimedia COmmons
He memorized the 200 names using the song Ol’McDonald Had a Farm. He even needed to hum it when reciting the names back over.

You may not relate to his situation, but Doug’s experience gives insight into dealing with dangerous authority figures.

For example, if a cop pulls you over, it is better to play dumb rather than listen with your mouth, and explain everything you didn’t do wrong.

More broadly, it’s generally better to be guarded with what you know.

True genius is knowing when not to reveal it. Consider the context before showing all of your cards — or hiding them.

The right answer to this annoying question
Here’s a very simple situation where you should feign ignorance.

This will sound lighthearted — but people will become your tumors if you don’t answer correctly.

If you’re great at technology and someone comes up to you and says, “Hey, do you know anything about computers?”

I strongly recommend you reply, “Nope! Sorry.”

Otherwise, you’ll be cursed.

If you so much as program their TV remote, word will spread that you are a technology genius.

You’ll be saddled with every tech support ticket for the entire extended family. You’ll be troubleshooting your aunt’s friend’s cousin’s computer all weekend.

But hey, if you like working for free, have at it. It’s as the Japanese saying goes, “The smart hawk hides its talons.”

Become a shadow walker
Amazon’s new CEO, Andy Jassey, got to his position in a very unique way. He shadowed Jeff Bezos and started from zero.

He sat in on meetings. He was copied on every email and sent Bezos recaps on important items each week.

His constant proximity allowed him to absorb Bezos’s unconventional style of management.

This learning approach echoes what a professor at my business school urged us to do. He said, “Find a brilliant hotshot — who has experience. Flatter them and their abilities. Ask them if you can sit in with them at meetings and learn from them.”

Doing so is powerfully correlated to your performance.

Find someone who is already the person you want to become, and just be around them.

Humans are empathy machines. We’re wired to mold into the people we spend time around and admire.

Don’t fall into the trap of always needing to be the smartest person in the room.

Getting to the good stuff
Back in college, I wanted to know my professor's thoughts about our governor.

Politics is high octane here in Florida. Policies have a very real impact on our daily lives.

My professor was a stocky, middle-aged, outspoken Italian-American man with a Ph.D. in English.

I suspected he’d give his opinion but not in front of a classroom full of students.

After the students left, I scrunched my eyes, held my hands out in a dumbfounded way and said, “So what’s the deal with the governor’s new policy (which cut the state budget by 3%, including my professor’s salary). Is he an idiot or…”

I’d meant to add “..or genius.” But the professor cut me off, “IDIOT.”

“Total idiot.”

He laid his opinion out in a glorious rant. It was far better than I could have hoped for.

Acting in a disoriented manner, in need of direction, invites a person to open up.

This is especially true if you act as though their opinion doesn’t matter one way or the other.

Listen — and wait to ask questions. Playing dumb has a way of surfacing the truth.

Recap: Four moments to play dumb
When they ask if you know technology. Don’t become a free personal helpdesk.
When you want someone’s opinion on a touchy subject. Pretend you have no dog in the right and they won’t fear judgment.
To get an awesome mentor who can show you all of their tricks. Flatter them and absorb all you can.
When the cops pull you over. You aren’t the expert with all the answers. And if you ever find yourself being interrogated at a police station, don’t play dumb. Stop talking and ask for a lawyer. It will stop them in their tracks.