18 Ways to Repurpose Content
Repurposing is NOT just copying and pasting old content.

Photo by Skye Studios on Unsplash
As we all know, in the age of the information superhighway, content is king.

My website says it and so does everyone else’s.

And we all consume tons of content every day, from articles on Medium to social media posts, TikTok videos, podcasts, YouTube, news, and so much more.

Those are all pieces of content.

There are some people and companies producing dozens of new pieces of content every single day and it can be hard to keep up or feel like you’re being seen.

Some writers and creators fall into the trap of thinking that since they can’t keep up with larger companies or influencers that they just shouldn’t bother.

But that is the wrong mindset.

The internet is HUGE. The world is DIVERSE. As I tell my authors, there is an audience for anything you can imagine.

Instead of getting caught up in how to create more and spending more time writing unpaid things and focusing on exposure, use your time wisely and repurpose content and topics in a new way to reach a wider audience.

What is Repurposing Content?
“Repurposing content” is defined by Hubspot as “either changing the format of the content and/or changing the target audience for the content.”

Since time is your commodity as a freelancer (or as anyone!), repurposing or reusing your content has a huge benefit of saving you time — from not creating new pieces of content in new topics every day. It also exposes existing topics and content to a wider audience on more platforms.

You can almost think of it as “create less, promote/expose more.”

BUT repurposing is NOT JUST REPOSTING THE SAME THING OVER AGAIN. The actual point of repurposing is to alter it and add to it or pull pieces of existing content to use in a new way to a new audience.

Benefits of Repurposing Content:
Rise in SEO. Having multiple pieces of content on similar topics means more opportunities for keywords and backlinks.
New audience. If you read this piece on Medium and are already following me, you are an existing audience base. If someone gets here from Twitter, Pinterest, or anywhere else and does NOT already follow me, then a new audience is finding me.
Repetition and reinforcement. Having multiple pieces of content on similar topics repeats and reinforces your message. In marketing, it is said that repetition is necessary, as potential customers need to hear from you up to 7 times before they buy.
Credibility and authority. Content reuse can position you as a thought leader or subject-matter expert when you focus on specific topics.
Using your time and efforts wisely. Your time is your biggest commodity. By repurposing content you are using the benefits of the hard work you already put in in a new way. It’s also leveraging your existing assets.
The Key to Repurposing Content
You don’t want to (and shouldn’t) be repurposing and reusing EVERY piece of content you write.

Sure, promote everything on socials and LinkedIn, but if you’re repurposing everything then you are definitely not saving yourself any time and may be repurposing not-great pieces.

The key when repurposing is to dig into your content archives and find the cornerstone content. The pieces that are still relevant and high quality. The pieces that had more views than others or more interactions.

Find the content people responded to and that remains timely and of good quality. Review which of your pieces were most popular.

THOSE are the ones worth repurposing.

NOTE: As you look through older content, keep an eye out for pieces you can rewrite, add more info into, or improve and repost in order to have a better piece. Updating old content to be more relevant is also great.

How to Repurpose Your Content
Here are a bunch of things you can do to repurpose your existing content.

Create new related blog posts going more in-depth on topics from existing articles. One easy example of this is converting a listicle into a series of individual articles or videos or podcast topics.
Create an infographic using information from a popular and still-relevant article.
Refresh and update older articles that are no longer getting a lot of attention.
Re-post old pieces on social media and call new attention to them
Find questions on Quora on topics you’ve already written about and use some of YOUR content as the answer. (Or do the opposite and use your Quora answers to turn into blog posts/articles.)
Use a piece you’re proud of in a newsletter to your email list (Medium does this all the time to feature writers and their own publications).
Create a webinar or free presentation on topics you’ve written a lot about.
Create a YouTube video on the same topic with more or different information to go along with an article you’ve written.
Take the same topic and create a podcast episode around it.
If you already have a podcast, transcribe the audio into a blog post of the interview or topic.
Using your best 1–3 topics and take existing content and adapt it into an ebook. Add additional information and examples — don’t just copy and paste blog posts into a book, make it worth the money for readers.
Create a how-to guide for something you’re an expert in using content from your existing pieces.
Pitch a guest post to a site or publication on a similar topic to one you write about often — this will gain you exposure to a whole new audience and usually a byline and bio with a link back to your work.
Take photos from your content and put them on Pinterest.
Take statistics, quotes, and/or photos and post those snippets on social media like Twitter and Instagram. Or create new social-media-friendly images from your articles and post them on social media.
If you’ve reviewed a product or service in the past, think about updating your review or doing a new comparison with a similar product or service.
Create a new piece of content using questions you’ve gotten in the past on the topic and post your answers — if one person has questions, there is a high likelihood that others are wondering the same thing.
Promote current events or products using older content about the same topic to reuse it in a new way.
How do you repurpose your content to reach new people? Have you had success doing this?

