Unpopular opinion.

via Photo by Christina Morillo on Pexels
All the tutorials, guides on how to make money, classical advice, etc. are mostly useless. It’s the paths you discover by yourself that will truly bring you profit (and satisfaction).
In my personal experience following popular advice (on how to entrepreneur) ad literam brought me little or nothing. I guess those paths are so beaten that there’s little left for new entrepreneurs. In 90% of the cases that brought me decent(ish) profits and satisfaction I used unconventional approaches I figured by myself.

Oh, I tried lots of variations within the provided paths. Still nothing.

Cold calling strategy using Belfort’s courses or other similar tips & tricks & courses. Nada.

Cold emailing using advice found on internet and ebooks. Mostly nada.

Money making from affiliate marketing campaigns with Fb. ads, starting your own…GASP…marketing agency using “proven” strategies, a shitload of other minor advice floating all over the internet and being paraded as gospel — little or nada.

It’s all crap.

(I’m so glad I didn’t tried a classical Amazon GET RICH FAST business, but then again I’m not THAT naive)

Granted, you learn some technical skills. And you get to make mistakes so you won’t repeat them in the future (hopefully).

Here’s my personal epiphany: You gotta stop trying to squeeze and adapt your ideas through these “proven” strategies.

Forget about “but you MUST do it this way cause it worked for a trillion people before, I’ll just give it ANOTHER try”. Fuck that — if it’s not working it’s not working (and if it is then why the hell are you still reading this?)

What am I doing instead (feel free to do the same or not)?

Well, instead of playing the game in a linear way played by a trillion other fools just stop. Look at the world around you. Consider all the data you have, all the knowledge you accumulated. Don’t bundle it up using the old “proven” strategies. Look at it with fresh eyes, intelligent eyes, pragmatic eyes.

You know what you want to achieve, right? A certain sum of money probably or being a very profitable entrepreneur who doesn’t slave 16 hours a day. Whatever.

You have the “liberated” data at your disposal, facts, data, knowledge.

You have a brain. You don’t need to get your strategies from somewhere else. Use your brain cause your fucking smart (enough) and plot new strategies that make sense to you, strategies that adapt to your strengths and weaknesses.

In the end you just realize the world (of business) is just made of an infinite number of little interactive legos (figuratively speaking). You can build your own damn toys and tools with them.

I’m sorry if it sounds wishy washy.

It just feels like a revelation to me. I feel I’ve been stuck using the “proven” strategies for too long. Which to be honest MAY be working but maybe I’m not well suited for them (are you?).

Maybe I’ll talk more about the practical aspects of this “eureka moment” later. For me personally it involves fully embracing the HUGE power of tech & programming (and all the skills I’ve accumulated but sadly rarely used) and marrying it with my entrepreneur mind (marketing, sales, deals). That’s one practical aspect of my too late and too recent “awakening”.

The shit one can do for himself these days with tech is amazing. But again, you gotta think outside of the box and abandon your preconceptions (eg: don’t be afraid to start programming OR if you are a decent programmer use that power in new ways).

TLDR: Carve your own way through the jungle, there’s not much left on the well traveled roads or those roads are not for you. Create your own roads, or go underground, or go swinging from tree to tree, or fly above, or teleport — just traverse the jungle as it best suits you, not others.

[Edit] — That being said, I know sometimes advice DOES help. Which is why I will continue to write finance advice articles. However, maybe someone needed to hear this. I really do believe that some people just do their best work when they do it their own way. And others need specific advice and steps drawn out for them. Who’s to say which will be more successful. Maybe it depends on the advice, too.

