A Life Lesson From a Dying Martial Arts Master
An insight into the nature of competency.

via Pexels Images
Kanō Jigoro was the legendary founder of Judo.

He was small in stature but tossed much larger opponents over his head with ease.

He pioneered the central tenet of Judo: the idea of using someone’s weight against them.

Kanō’s journey wasn’t easy in the beginning. In the mid-19th century, he was a young disciple who sparred with other senseis and was often defeated in humiliating fashion.


A traditional hip throw in Judo. (Pexels Images)
Eventually, he became unbeatable. Masters fumed as a novice Judoka gave them a world of problems.

What changed in Kanō Jigoro? He was persistent and took time to study - He stepped outside the normal bounds of tutelage. He researched and tested new techniques from other martial arts.

After trial and error, he discovered a key insight: the easiest way to throw someone is to break their posture.

By bending them at the hips, they lost their defensive strength and balance.

Five decades later, after immortalizing his legacy, Jigoro’s health began failing him.

On his deathbed, he asked that he be buried in a white belt instead of a black belt. He wanted to be remembered as a learner, not a master.

It makes his dying lesson even more notable.

Any new craft will throw us on our headsmany times over. And even when we stop getting thrown, we should continue thinking with the humility and hunger of a white belt.

Yet it’s easy to feel demoralized in a world where talent is hyper-visible.

There’s a phenomenon I’ve long called the Law of 13-Year-Old YouTubers.

No matter how good you are at something, there’s a 13-year-old on YouTube who could completely own you at it.

Think you’re good at chess? Here’s a blindfolded 13-year-old beating five adults at once. Think you’re good at violin? Here’s a one-armed teen playing Flight of the Bumblebee.

More than two decades ago, I was a tall, lanky 15-year-old, who was warming the bench on my high school basketball team.

That summer, between seasons, I often walked over to the military base and played with off-duty sailors.

Many of them were standouts in high school and college. Many could still run like the wind and windmill dunk while wearing a backpack.

Like so many others, they eventually faced the harsh reality: unless you’re in the top .01% of a sport, you’ll need to get a regular job.

Seven basketball courts filled the huge industrial warehouse.

Every time I stepped into the building, I was greeted by a crescendo of bouncing basketballs and shouts from varying distances.

The entrance to the building felt like a flaming portal to the dimension of Sore Losers.

There wasn’t a single day where I didn’t see grown men shouting, arguing, or even fist-fighting over a pickup game.

You’d have thought one of them owed the other money that was long overdue.

It also wasn’t uncommon that I was the only white dude and, candidly, I wasn’t representing my ilk all that well.

Coordination, speed, ball awareness, were all absent from my athletic gifts. The only thing I had going for me was that I was tall.

They usually put me under the basket, like a cheap traffic cone that cars ignored and ran over.

Often enough, I made myself useful. The ball fell into my hands and I dished it out to someone.

However, let me be clear: The number of times I was dunked on, ticked upwards like a global population counter.

Seeing a 6’1 220 lb brick of muscle charging down the lane, bulldozing me, was often the preceding factor in a chorus of laughter.

I was never destined to be a basketball star.

There would be no tear-filled signing day where I strapped on a 76ers hat with my mom standing beside me.

However, within that massive talent discrepancy, my skills were yanked upwards. I became stronger and more coordinated.

I learned how to minimize “damage” when being outclassed.

Like a judoka, I learned to break my own fall.

When a brawl broke out, I learned to duck stray punches.

You might look at grown men arguing over a foul, and getting into fistfights over pickup basketball, and think it’s toxic and immature.

You might be right. However, over time, I’ve realized it was their passion. These men were living in the moment, treating these games with an urgency that fed energy into the courts.

It put everyone on notice: this game matters.

You’d better jog your butt back down the court and play defense. I became strides better at a game I was destined to stink at. I felt alive. I loved it.

Conventional wisdom, the scourge known as exceptionalism, holds that we should only do things we are talented at, where success is near assured.

Such thinking ignores the harsh inner critic most people harbor, which shoots down a majority of hobbies shortly after they begin.

Every skill you take up, no matter how unrelated to your source of income, identity, or pride, adds value.

You become more interesting.

Those skills cross over into other aspects of your life in subtle, unexpected ways.

Former President, George W. Bush, famously took up painting after leaving office.

When he began, his wife asked him if everything was ok, thinking he might be off his rocker.

He was never particularly artsy, and he even admits the art community was never his biggest source of political support.


Via Military.com (Public Domain)
Friends predicted he’d give up within a week.

Months later, reports surfaced that painting was the only thing Bush talked about at parties.

Any off-beat subject was crowbarred back towards his latest project. Eventually, he became a very competent oil painter, surprising many critics.

Let me repeat, George W. Bush, the president known to be bumbling and goofy, got good at painting after starting in his 60s.

There’s no rule that says you can only enjoy something if you’re a natural at it.

Otherwise, karaoke bars wouldn’t have a two-hour wait-list to get on stage and howl at the moon.