How Freelancing Changed My Career From Nothing to Something
Because it can teach you better than school does.

Photo by Agnieszka Boeske on Unsplash
Technology has done us favors that instantly changed our life. I mean, you can invest in stocks silently from your mobile phone, learn new skills from the comfort of your room, and start a business from your parent’s basement.

When I took advantage of the technology and started working as a freelancer, I didn’t expect to learn many skills I could sell in six months, but I would have to learn from school for years. That’s why for me, freelancing is priceless.

1. I developed skills in the web environment.
Creation of a website alone with choice and purchase of a domain name. Putting it together took me a sleepless night, about 7 hours non-stop, then I took about a good month to finalize it.
Creation of a blog affiliated with the website.
Creation of a brand new newsletter which now has over a thousand readers.
2. I have developed a strategy, a real reflection on the challenges of my business
In particular, I created a price list, defined my prices, and calculated my survival cost.
I defined my strategy on social networks (active/passive).
I was able to define a persona (target customer) to work with regular customers who leave me my independence.
I created an editorial calendar for writing my articles. It helps me to be more regular in publications.
I created all of my processes: the management of my candidates, the management of my clients with a shared table, the management of my organization, of my planning.
I started to capitalize on my experience to bring in potential new clients in my activity sector.
I have developed a sense of business, trade, and negotiation.
I learned how to sell myself to clients, friends, and strangers on the web or by telephone.
3. I developed my creativity and my sense of intuition.
I learned how to make a mood board for my website.
I discovered the world of blogging and content creation.
I learned to do accompaniments and training in Keynote with the addition of video, audio, and motion design.
I was able to create my logo, my design, my visuals, and my graphic charter.
I write a lot more, primarily through articles and free content.
I took pleasure in sourcing again by applying my working methods according to my state of mind. I feel much more creative in my approach messages, and that’s a real plus!
4. I have made enormous progress in management and organization.
I learned how to manage accounting. I use Excel much better, especially with a turnover tracking table.
I learned how to make almost perfect quotes and invoices.
I learned to discipline myself by setting goals month by month.
I learned to automate specific tasks such as publishing content on social networks or the reports of my candidates.
I’ve officially accepted that I’m not a morning person. I’m simply an evening person, so I don’t feel guilty anymore when I sleep and the others work because no one feels guilty when I work and the others sleep. It is also a real luxury to work according to one’s state of mind and not according to a constraint.
5. I develop skills in analysis and benchmarking.
I learned to analyze the statistics of my articles as well as the traffic (40,000 people have already seen my posts)
You’re much more attentive to the multitude of offers available when it's your money and your business. I took the time to compare many different services. Regarding the mutual and the choice of bank account (mandatory), I looked at all the options available to me to make the best choice.