My sister is a former gifted child — and because of that, I will likely be spending Christmas alone
It’s not all irony and ‘where are the grandkids’. Sometimes, the gifted kid delivers.

I see a lot of memes on Twitter where people say something like:

‘Fellow former gifted children who were a ‘pleasure’ to have in class… how y’all doing now?’

The replies are, predictably, full of former gifted kids who everyone liked talking about how their lives are falling apart and their lower back hurts, and how their parents are wondering what the heck actually happened.

It’s a funny, ironic joke.

But there’s another side to people who everyone loved as a kid. The people who continued to be everyone’s favourite person as an adult.

And they are a rotten, narcissistic nightmare.

Enter, pursued by my fucking sister
Sorry, Shakespeare. You’ll have to give me that one.

My sister has never been criticised. All she has ever known is praise, to the point where I can only tell you of two instances that I know of where someone has passed on criticism in her direction.

Once was me, and once was her former boss.

When I criticised her (it was a valid and not life-shattering one, although I’ll spare you the dirty laundry right now), I immediately became the villain in her life, and she invented a tonne of imagined slights (and lies) in order to justify her anger. I have received no communication since then, and there is a very real chance I will not be receiving an invite to Christmas dinner this year, meaning I will spend it alone, as we have no other family. She will now no longer answer my texts; I’ve got a few that I’ve sent since early September, and they’re delivered, but ignored.

When her boss criticised her work one time back in 2017, she went on fake sick leave (I know because she told me she did it cos she ‘wasn’t gonna stand for that’) before eventually quitting her job in law. She idled for a short while before quitting law altogether and going to University (for the fourth time, in total) to get a nursing degree. She’s a nurse now. But not only that, she no longer watches legal thrillers. No longer reads legal fiction. She only reads and watches medical media.

She has scrubbed over a decade of law from her existence the way she will likely scrub four decades of having a sister from it. She is so closed to the idea of not being that well loved, well executed, well presented piece of perfection who breezes into a room like the World’s Best Soccer Mom, that she can’t and won’t have ANYTHING in her life that contests that.

Even her only surviving family.