The Real Reason Men Are Single
And it’s not from women raising their standards

Photo by cottonbro studio via pexels
The presumption of there being a lack of good women in the world that is leading men to focus more on themselves, is sad and disheartening. One, it’s not true. Two, the lack of insight stems from ignorance, or just a simple ‘not knowing’ to put in more pleasant terms.

Women are everywhere. Men are everywhere. So there has to be some good somewhere right?

It begs the question of what is good? What do these men mean when they say there is a shortage of good women?

Good by definition
Morally excellent, virtuous, righteous, pious

To take it a step further let’s look at the definition of virtuous:

conforming to moral and ethical principles

Alright, so good is a person who lives by some type of moral and ethical code. I have a hunch this is not what defines a woman as “good” in the eyes of some men.

What are men really looking for?
The technological era the world is currently in has shifted the way humans see and interact with each other. The days of needing marriage to start a family or to obtain economic stability are over. Women have benefitted handsomely through the passage of laws, gaining more rights aiding in our independence financially.

Women have taken the bag and ran with it; literally.

Where does that leave women the time to cook and clean? To make a man her world or the “prize”? To submit?

Comment sections are full of disgruntled men on how modern women aren’t the women of our grandmother’s era. Sorry not sorry, this isn’t our grandmothers time. Duh.

If cooking, cleaning, and submitting are the main things men are looking for, then you’re not looking for good. Traditional skills alone don’t define good anyway.

You’re looking for control, dominance, and an ego boost.

What I’ve come to find…
Is that some men view ‘good’ as a woman who is his therapist, maid, and porn star, who doesn’t ask the same in return.

The men who are more concerned about a woman’s skills in the bedroom than her hearts posture! Or how fast he can get her in the bedroom without finding out who she is and why!

The men who base what a woman should be doing and when off previous partners. And if she doesn’t fall in line on his time she gets the scissors.

The men who are looking for a mother they can sleep with.

The women who put on track shoes to chase him to the moon.

And dare I say some of you are confused and aren’t looking for a woman at all. It’s okay because the world is more open now.

The bottom line
There is no shortage of good women looking for partners. Key word partners. Not controllers and manipulators.

However there is a plethora of men who have ‘good’ misconstrued. Because it doesn’t mean doormat, sexually easy, or domestic. Good means someone of moral and ethical character. A person of standard, self love and esteem.

A good woman doesn’t tolerate disrespect of any kind. A good woman is not sexually easy, or serve as a band aid and trash dump to all a man’s issues. Good women know who they are, what they want, and act accordingly.

Some men can handle it. Some can’t.

Men are single not because women have raised their standards. Men are single because men don’t know what good is or what it looks like. And women aren’t to blame. Your mothers are.

Men are supposedly exiting the dating scene out of frustration from a lack of ‘good’ women. But honestly, men can’t find good because they are not good.

And you can take that to the bank.