10 Lessons From Dating Millionaires
The mindset is more important than the money

Photo Credit: Victoria Strelka_ph
How much money a person makes doesn’t matter as much as how a person manages the money they make.

A person could earn considerably less than your average millionaire but have a net worth tremendously more than them because they know how to manage their money.

I’ve had the opportunity to date broke people, five-figure people, six-figure people, and seven-figure people. The differences are overt.

I noticed that high six-figure earners (300k+) to millionaires have distinct traits, and here they are…

10 Lessons From Dating Millionaires
They have more time on their hands. When you work for yourself, your time is not tied to someone else unless you choose that path.
They read and invest in their personal development consistently.
They have more freedom than the average person because they dictate their schedules.
Even if they work a traditional job, they still run one or more of their own businesses.
When they get bored, they start another side hustle or find a way to monetize a skill or hobby they have.
Their investment strategies are diversified and sometimes riskier than the average investor, but their rewards are far greater.
They are providing value to others. The more service you provide, the greater the financial rewards you will receive.
They work hard but also understand how to play hard. What’s the point of working if you never take a moment to enjoy it all?
They’re always learning and taking on new projects. Open-mindedness is a critical factor in expanding their wealth and knowledge.
They never stop increasing their income. Even if they earn x amount, they don’t stop there. They have financial goals that differ from the average person, making your jaw gape.
They have astronomical goals. As I mentioned in #10, these high earners have different goals than your average person. They also keep them visible and review them daily. Without clear and ambitious goals, you will remain in mediocrity.
Money doesn’t eradicate their flaws, and this goes for everyone. If you don’t invest in your personal development journey, money will only exasperate the areas in which you need growth.
You can lose large amounts of money in one day. When you have more resources, you can lose more resources. Furthermore, when you engage in riskier investments, losses can happen. However, I’ve noticed they often get it back multiple times over and quickly.
Disclaimer: The people you date will tend to reflect your values and beliefs. We all know that not every millionaire or high six-figure earner has these traits or values, but I implement these values into my life, which means I will tend to attract similarly.

