You don’t need to work hard to be successful

Hard work is a lie.

It’s one that your boss and CEO want you to believe. They hope to squeeze as much effort as possible out of you.

But the truth is: success and hard work don’t correlate. Especially, if you think twice about your definition of success.

Before you get out your pitchforks, let me explain…

Effort & incentives
Your capitalist bosses would like you to work as hard as possible for as little pay as possible.

Their interests are in opposition to yours.

If I asked most people, they’d say they want to work a job that’s interesting and challenging, but low stress and not 100% effort all the time.

In exchange, you’d probably like to be paid as much as possible.

At most companies, the bosses have set up a system to incentivize effort. They tell employees that “hard work” will get them a promotion. More effort will lead to more money (the carrot). And too little effort will lead to punishment or firing (the stick).

The reality is different.

Defining success
Working hard is a good idea if your definition of success involves wearing yourself out.

If you’re super competitive and your definition of success is beating everyone else, then I guess you’ll have to work pretty hard for that.

But for most of us, a “successful” career is one where we feel:

Fulfilled by our work
Challenged, but not stressed, frazzled, or exhausted
Flexibility & agency over our free time
In that case, hard work isn’t your friend. It’s time to downshift.

Working hard != making more
Hard work isn’t what gets you promoted, anyway.

When I see people grinding it out, hour after hour, day after day; I get sad for them. They’re idealists. They believe in the system. “If I work hard, I’ll get promoted, right?”

But you’ll notice that the idealists in the office are rarely the ones in charge.

Executives need rank and file workers who will consistently deliver the product. They dangle the carrot of “promotions” in front of idealists in order to keep them working hard.

Just like the proverbial donkey, the idealists will forever be chasing that carrot.

This may sound cynical to you. But take a look around. Really question the system. The people who glorify hard work often have an ulterior motive.

The opportunists get the promotions
Success in careers and business rarely go to the nicest people.

Capitalism doesn’t optimize for compassion. It also doesn’t reward idealism. Working hard, for that matter, doesn’t guarantee success.

Instead, the world of business rewards the opportunists.

The people who are able to create value rarely work the hardest. Instead, they’re strategic about when and where they deploy their effort. In the worst case, they’re cutthroat about competing and taking credit.

The good news
Once you awaken to the system you’re inside, you can start playing by different rules.

Write your own definition of success.

One that doesn’t include grinding effort for your company’s profits.

Instead, start to prioritize your free time, mental health, and fulfilling projects. Downshift from high gear. Don’t work yourself to the bone.

Earlier this year, people were obsessed with “quiet quitting.” But that’s a misnomer.

Just do your job at a reasonable pace, pick your moments to show your value, and get better at being a little more opportunistic in your personal storytelling.

Each person’s path will be different. But I’m here to give you permission:

You don’t have to work hard all the time. You can succeed without the constant effort.