$1 Million Is Not Enough To Retire? How I’d Make That Kind Of Cash Last A Lifetime.
How would you?

Photo by Alex Vasey on Unsplash
Expectations.

They’re at the root of most money problems.

You’ll never have a soft, easy life that includes no or very little work if you set your expectations too high.

The reason why the person on a $350,000 salary barely breaks even at the end of the month — too high expectations.

Same for the latest bull shit statistic — 35% of millionaires say it will take a miracle for them to be ready for retirement.


Whether you call yourself a millionaire on the basis of net worth, cash in the bank, or a mix of both, you’re obectively wrong if you can’t make it on a million bucks now — no matter your age — let alone retire on that kind of cash.

You can’t make it work — and work well — now or once you enter relative old age because you set your default lifestyle too high. You feel like you deserve way more than you need or should reasonably have. You’re self-entitled. And certainly unwilling to make the often big lifestyle changes that can set your personal finance in order now and for the duration.

Not you!

The millionaire or robust six-figure earner whining about problems us mere mortals would love to have. More like a fortunate situation we’d never delusionally spin into a problem.

It’s insulting.

Because —

They spend too much on housing.

They spend too much on transportation.

They spend too much on clothing and accessories.

They have overhead that’s too high because their expectations are too high.

Simple as that.

If you start from too high a baseline — and set it commensurate to how much you earn or have — you’re fucked financially. Plain and simple.

You can externalize this reality all you want. Blame it on how unfair it is that you can’t live and have the American dream like your parents did.

The post-war socially, politically, and corporately-manufactured American dream.

It was little more than a purposeful fad that was never going to sustain.

Thing is — lowering your expectations to the point where $1 million would be more than enough money doesn’t mean you’d have to slum it. Quite the contrary.

My partner and I are able to do what we do — on relatively modest income — because we set proper and realistic expectations. Others might consider them low, but that’s little more than noise.

Our income and attendant expectations generate a fantastic life in the heart of a great Los Angeles neighborhood. They allow for copious amounts of leisure time, including — pretty soon — an entire month in Spain and Italy.

Neither of us make six figures, yet we work less and play more because we didn’t set ourselves up to fail. The only thing special about us is that we set our expectations at the right level.

So when you — not you! — come to me and say you can’t make it on a million bucks, I call objective bull shit.

A million bucks in my hand right now — at age 47 — could look something like this:

$400,000 to pay cash for an apartment in Madrid, Spain. $300,000 to $350,000 for the property and money left over the taxes and fees.
Set aside a generous $500 a month to cover taxes, maintenance, etc. That’s $6,000 a year.
Next to nothing for transportation. Call it $100 a month. That’s $1,200 a year.
$200 a month for private health insurance in Spain. That’s $2,400 a year.
If I filled pots of money to cover the cost of housing, transportation, and health insurance for ten years, I’d have to set aside $96,000. We’ll call it $100,000. This is too high, given I set all of my estimates on the high side and would eventually not require private health insurance.

Going high on these estimates only further proves the point.

So, after buying a property and setting aside 10 years of cash for fixed expenses, I’m left with $500,000.

$500,000!

But, back to expectations. I’m not going to stop working.

Why would I?

I made the decision to go all-in on work I enjoy that’s easy on my body and mind for a reason. For this very reason.

So I have no problem or obstacle doing it for 5, 10, 15, 20 hours a week. Not every week. Just most weeks. Pretty much when I feel like it. Basically the way it is now.

In fact, I wouldn’t have it any other way. Why would I not want to keep writing articles for the internet and publishing a newsletter? This is a big part of my life I look forward to most days.

We’ll go low on income and say I’m able to generate an average of $2,000 a month in ongoing cash flow.

From here, we’ll say I spend $3,000 a month on groceries, eating and drinking out, travel, some entertainment, maybe a yoga membership.

Going high again to prove the point.

My work cash flow covers $2,000 of that. So I have $1,000 a month to cover with $500,000.

This gives me 500 months of personal financial runway. Five hundred months or about 41-and-a-half years, taking to me to the ripe old age of 88.

Of course, I’d divide that $500,000 up.

Maybe keeping $100,000 of it in a pot of money for expenses my work cash flow doesn’t cover. In months when I don’t do $3,000 in discretionary spending, that $100,000 either grows or doesn’t come down as quickly.

I’d aim to yield a modest 4% on the remaining $400,000, which would generate roughly $16,000 in annual income.

I didn’t even mention the monthly Social Security check I’ll be eligible to collect once I hit 62. If I want or need it that soon.

So I’ll stop here.

You get the point.

This is a back of the envelope exercise — that allows for variation, adaptation, and an error or oversight here or there — to illustrate the absurdity of saying you can’t be comfortable as a millionaire.

If your expectation is you’ll never need to earn another dime again or you need to take on a million-dollar mortgage, you set your expectation too high. Especially if you’re starting with your hypothetical million at a relatively young age like me.

If you’re unwilling to live in the type of place where you can afford a modest, but nice place to live — doesn’t have to be urban Spain like my partner and I becaue it could just as well be Pittsburgh or Buffalo — you have set your expectations too high.

The problem isn’t with the world or how much things cost.

The problem is with your — not you! — expectations. The problem is with what you think you need to live a good life.

If you don’t like the noise and grit of Madrid or the cold of Buffalo or Pittsburgh — or whatever downside you can inevitably come up with in other workable situations — that’s your problem.

That’s why you — not you, but the millionaire — can’t afford to slow the fuck down and live the good life on a million dollars.

It’s offensive actually that people with this level of wealth say such stupid shit when asked to fill out a survey.

Within the next 3-to-5 years, my partner and I have every intention of making the move. We’ll do it with a fraction of a million dollars saved and cash flow in the low-to-mid thousands per month.

Maybe we were both born with it, but we prefer the public life in Europe. So, even if we could afford exactly what we want as we enter relative old age in the US cities we love, we would still go abroad for the culture.

If that culture existed in New York, LA, or San Francisco — it doesn’t — we wouldn’t cry foul and say life is unfair because we can’t afford to buy an apartment and spend freely in these cities on just a couple to a few thousand bucks a month.

We’d reset expectations and make the move to where we can make it work — comfortably.

Which is exactly what we plan to do.

Subscribe to my Never Retire newsletter here.

We take the thoughts and ideas in these articles and turn them into customizable near- and long-term money strategies to help you live the life you wanna live now and for the duration.

Right now, you can get an annual subscription to the Never Retire newsletter for 20% off.

Join as a founding member and you’re set for life after your initial donation.

This article is for informational purposes only. It should not be considered Financial or Legal Advice. Not all information will be accurate. Consult a financial professional before making any major financial decisions.