Of The 30+ Non-Fiction Books I Read In 2022, These 5 Are The Best
Unleash your inner potential and achieve your goals with these 5 transformative books.

Image by lookstudio on Freepik
Not all books leave the same impact.

Some are simply okay, while others are downright disappointing.

But every once in a while, I come across a book that blows me away.

These are the books that not only entertain and educate but also inspire and challenge me to think differently and live a better life.

Among the 30+ non-fiction books I read in 2022, these five are the best. They are the ones that have truly transformed my thinking and my life.

I highly recommend these five books if you’re looking for exceptional non-fiction reading. They can change the way you see the world and yourself and inspire you to achieve your goals and live your best life. Give them a read and see for yourself!

1. Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi

Image: Goodreads
In Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience, Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi examines the concept of flow — that state of being completely immersed and enjoying an activity.

The book discusses the conditions that need to be in place for flow, such as

having a clear goal,
immediate feedback, and
a high level of challenge.
Csikszentmihalyi also explores the potential benefits of flow, such as increased productivity, improved concentration, and enhanced creativity.

He also cautions that too much flow can lead to burnout and other adverse effects. The book includes case studies and practical advice for achieving flow in various aspects of life, such as work, play, and relationships.

Some impactful quotes from Flow by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
“Most enjoyable activities are not natural; they demand an effort that initially one is reluctant to make. But once the interaction starts to provide feedback to the person’s skills, it usually begins to be intrinsically rewarding.”

“It is when we act freely, for the sake of the action itself rather than for ulterior motives, that we learn to become more than what we were.”

2. The Tao of Pooh by Benjamin Hoff

Image: Goodreads
Imagine if characters from Winnie-the-Pooh were used to introduce complex principles of Taoism.

That’s what Benjamin Hoff does in In The Tao of Pooh.

Taoism is an ancient philosophy that emphasizes living in harmony with the universe. Through the adventures of Pooh, Piglet, and other A. A. Milne characters, Hoff illustrates Taoist concepts such as simplicity, naturalness, and acceptance.

Hoff uses humor and fun anecdotes to make Taoist ideas relatable.

You’ll learn the relevance of Taoist teachings and their application to modern life. The book will encourage you to incorporate these into your life as well.

Some impactful quotes from The Tao of Pooh by Benjamin Hoff
“The main problem with this great obsession for saving time is very simple: you can’t save time. You can only spend it. But you can spend it wisely or foolishly.”

“A clever mind is not a heart. Knowledge doesn’t really care, wisdom does.”

“When you discard arrogance, complexity, and a few other things that get in the way, sooner or later you will discover that simple, childlike, and mysterious secret known to those of the Uncarved Block: Life is Fun.”

3. The Inner Game of Tennis by W. Timothy Gallwey

Image: Goodreads
The Inner Game of Tennis by W. Timothy Gallwey introduces the concept of the “inner game,” the psychological battle that occurs within a player’s mind during a tennis match.

Gallwey argues that this inner game is often the biggest obstacle to a player’s success. Players can improve their performance on the court by learning to quiet their mind and focus on the present moment.

But this isn’t a book just for tennis players.

It applies the inner game approach to other areas of life, such as work and relationships.

Gallwey includes practical exercises and advice for developing mental focus and overcoming common mental obstacles like self-doubt and anxiety. It will give you an actionable blueprint to calm your mind during stressful situations and stay ahead of the competition.

Some impactful quotes from The Inner Game of Tennis by W. Timothy Gallwey
“When the mind is free of any thought or judgment, it is still and acts like a mirror. Then and only then can we know things as they are.”

“The ability to focus the mind is the ability to not let it run away with you. It does not mean not to think — but to be the one who directs your own thinking.”

“Not assuming you already know is a powerful principle of focus.”

4. The Untethered Soul by Michael A. Singer

We’ve all faced situations when our ego got in the way of inner peace.

This is the premise of The Untethered Soul by Michael A. Singer. The book explores the ego as a defense mechanism that makes us feel better than others. It isolates us from the world, leading to untold pain and suffering.

Singer suggests that we can let go of negative thoughts and find a more profound connection with our core values by becoming aware of the ego and its tricks.

The Untethered Soul includes tips and exercises for developing a more profound sense of self-awareness. This book equipped me with tools and taught me to live in the moment and let go of the things that hold me back from happiness.

Some impactful quotes from The Untethered Soul by Michael A. Singer
“There is nothing more important to true growth than realizing that you are not the voice of the mind — you are the one who hears it.”

“When a problem is disturbing you, don’t ask, “What should I do about it?” Ask, “What part of me is being disturbed by this?”

“Do not let anything that happens in life be important enough that you’re willing to close your heart over it.”

5. The Art of Possibility by Rosamund Stone Zander and Benjamin Zander

In The Art of Possibility, the authors offer a new way of thinking about personal and professional success.

The book suggests that success isn’t just about achieving specific goals, but rather about adopting a certain mindset and perspective. Changing how we see ourselves and the world can open up new possibilities and opportunities.

The Art of Possibility includes practical advice and exercises for shifting our perspective and thinking more expansively and creatively. It features stories and examples of people and organizations that have used these principles to achieve success.

By following the advice in the book, you can learn to see new possibilities in your life and pursue them confidently.

Some impactful quotes from The Art of Possibility by Rosamund Stone Zander and Benjamin Zander
“In the measurement world, you set a goal and strive for it. In the universe of possibility, you set the context and let life unfold.”

“Life is revealed as a place to contribute and we as contributors. Not because we have done a measurable amount of good, but because that is the story we tell.”

“We keep looking so hard in life for the “specific message,” and yet we are blinded to the fact that the message is all around us, and within us all the time. We just have to stop demanding that it be on OUR terms or conditions, and instead open ourselves to the possibility that what we seek may be in front of us all the time.”