Five Childhood Myths Our Parents Preached Were True
Dispelling a few misconceptions.

Editorial rights purchased via iStock Photos
I’ve grown increasingly fatigued with false information proliferating in recent years.

It seems like any moron with an internet connection can add to the fire.

We’ve managed to reel the problem in more in recent years, yet I still see childhood fairy tales being peddled as dictionary facts.

Here are a few I heard— that some people probably still believe.

The perils of weightlifting
That was an old myth that even my parents told me, “Lifting weights will stunt your growth. Don’t do it.”

There’s no evidence to support that claim. That being said—I don’t know that it is ideal for a kid to be going all out with weights and risking injury.

You might remember that famous bodybuilder kid, “Child Hercules”.


Via Wikimedia Commons
His name is Richard Sandrak. His parents forced him to weightlift and kept him on a strict diet (to earn them money). Eventually, he stopped lifting and is normal now and didn’t turn into a stunted dwarf.


Via IMG IMages
Obviously, we shouldn’t turn 8-year-olds loose unsupervised in weight rooms. Nor should they be trying to set powerlifting records as that isn’t safe.

(Also, there is also nothing more annoying than unsupervised kids in a gym.)

Introducing kids to lightweight training can be great to familiarize them with the proper form and safety. Weight lifting will benefit them massively as they go through their life, helping to reduce injury and body fat, and overall pain.

I have only managed to stay in good shape and exercise today as I near 40 because I was instilled with the habit of exercising early on.

Reading in the dark
My dad used to tell me that if I read without proper lighting it could cause permanent damage to my eyes.

He was intuitively correct that reading in the dark can cause eye strain, but there is no proof that you’ll permanently damage your vision.

That being said — I do take great precautions for my eyes. I’ve had LASIK surgery (it was the best decision ever — I totally recommend it) and want to ensure my results last. I lower my blue light on all screens or wear blue light glasses when I need to.

Another thing my optometrist taught me: to avoid eye strain, try to look away from your screen every 15–20 minutes.

Ideally, spend 30 seconds looking at something further away. When you are looking up close, it is working the lens (ciliary) muscle in your eye. It can become fatigued from contracting. Looking at a more distant object reduces that strain. It’s like a breather for your eyes.

Things that don’t actually get you arrested
When we were driving in my car when I was younger, my often mom told me to turn off my ceiling light.

She said, “Turn it off. That could get us pulled over.”

In reality — that isn’t actually against the law. You can drive fine with your interior lights on. I don’t blame my mom; it was probably something her parents said or what other people. And these days, with our smart cars, they wouldn’t even allow us to turn them on if it was illegal.

There are actually quite a few things people think are illegal that actually are not. For example, it isn’t illegal to fake your own death — so long as it isn’t done with criminal intent (collecting insurance, hiding from legal accountability). The term is pseudocide. It is commonly done as a practical joke (which I don’t see any humor in).

Of fruit and gum
Parents used to tell us that if we swallowed watermelon or other fruit seeds, they might start growing in our stomachs. To date, I haven’t seen any vines growing out of someone’s mouth.

Many fruit seeds (such as tomatoes) are actually designed to pass right through mammalian stomachs and are capable of growing again. This is, in part, how plant life is transported to new volcanic-formed islands.


The new island being formed near Tonga (Via BBC)
Also, gum doesn’t stay in your stomach for 5–7 years. It passes through just like any other and eventually can grow gum trees (sarcasm…).

That you only use 10–20% of your brain
It was a fun myth to believe and, of this list, this one is probably believed still by most people.

It’s a fun idea as it suggests we all have immense potential waiting to be unleashed. It just isn’t anchored in fact. However, most of us do have tons of potential — more than we actually have.

There have been studies that suggest how we use our brain, can result in long-term positive changes in its structure. Chess players, for example, have been shown to have additional structures in the decision-making and logic, and reasoning components of their brains.

This is commonly referred to as occupational neuroplasticity of the brain. It’s also partly why working well into older age tends to be good for people. The mind keeps getting worked and is kept active.

So in your free time, don’t stare at the wall. Keep reading and engaging that magnificent mind, as you are now.

Recap for memory
Remember — please don’t peddle more tall tales.

Weight training doesn’t stunt growth. But it should be done smartly and with supervision. Don’t release your feral children upon us.
Fruit seeds can’t grow in your stomach. Many pass right through.
You won’t damage your vision reading in the dark (but will cause eye strain if done for too long).
You won’t get pulled over for using your ceiling light.
You use most of your brain in a given day, but still have the capacity to improve your performance.