How to Get into Google? Tips from 2 Google Recruiters
The straight probability of getting into Google is 0.2%

Photo by Mitchell Luo on Unsplash
If you apply for Google, the possibility of your acceptance is close to 0.2%. In fact, it’s twenty-six time difficult to get into Google than esteemed Harvard University.

Why it’s so difficult to get a job at google
Google hires the best of the best. The company wants brilliant, motivated, accomplished people who can help it grow. It doesn’t matter whether you’re applying for a software engineer job or in a different area within Google; they always want the best people.
Google nowadays pays little heed to your academic background. A mouthful educational background might be helpful if you’re looking forward to working as a software engineer or programmer, but the company emphasizes other extracurricular activities like programming contests.
Around 2 million people apply for Google each year. Google can be pretty picky across all teams and for all roles, from customer service to engineering.
Your experience matters a lot. They would look into where you worked and your contribution to the company. If you came from a no-name company and did nothing but carry on your day-to-day task, you will be less likely to be selected.
You’ll compete with individuals with insane work experience from big companies like Tesla, Meta, Microsoft, and IBM or people with fascinating educational backgrounds from Harvard, Stanford, and MIT. It often gets intimidating.
After reading through these, you might wonder — well, I’m no Elliot from Mr. Robot, so I’m out. But it won’t be a fair evaluation. Senior vice president for people operations at Google, Laszlo Bock, says the company is passionate about searching for “role-related expertise.”

He busted some myths regarding the difficulty level of the interview process. You might have read some brainteasers on Facebook or Instagram reels asked in Google’s interview and thought it would take forever to solve them. Those are true to some extent, but Bock says at LinkedIn’s Talent Connect conference in San Francisco,

“I hate brainteasers. There’s no evidence that they suggest how people will perform on the job. Some of our interviewers still ask them. I’m trying to get them to stop.”

How to get a job at Google?
The odds are very high doesn’t mean you won’t be able to secure a job at Google. That would be a very wrong assumption. Here are some does and don’ts that will help your dream come true

Match your skill with the job
The first step is to figure out the ideal role you should apply for. Google’s website explicitly advises candidates to “match their skills and interests with jobs they’re passionate about, and the proves they intend

to solve.” Of course, you can apply for multiple jobs at a time if you think you’ve got enough skills, but we advise you to narrow down your list and apply only for one or two jobs where your skills fit 100%.

Make a crisp resume
We’ll spend some time on this, as a resume has a lasting psychological effect on how an interview will go.

Tailor your Resume according to your skill
Google doesn’t require a cover letter, says Jess Penkhues, a recruiter at Google covering Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. What matters is your Resume. Look closely at the job description and tailor your Resume accordingly. For example, If you’re applying for a programming job, mention which language you’re proficient in.

Don’t bother about the format.
According to Katarzyna Kamińska from Google’s university programs team, there’s no perfect format for a resume. It should be a pdf format and not more than two pages.

Showcase your experience
Experience is a must-have.

Kamińska said recruiters look for specific information such as experience. For example, if you’re applying for a tech position, mention your prior experience, like computer science projects, research activities, any difficult situation you handled in your previous job, etc.

Use X-Y-Z formula
According to Laslo Bock, the x-Y-Z formula can effectively highlight your resume skills. You can do it this way.

“I’ve accomplished [X] as measured by [Y] by doing [Z].”

In other words, begin with an active verb, quantify what you accomplished, establish a baseline for comparison, and explain how you achieved your goal.

Networking
It’s not guaranteed that you’ll get interviewed if someone introduces you, but networking raises the chance very high. Remember, a company trust you more when you’re recommended by someone they know. Look through your contacts and find out who has a current or past connection to Google. It would be best if you never asked for a big favor beforehand; that will lower your chance of being introduced. Start with small talk.

Use the STAR method in the interview.
STAR stands for Situation, Task, Action, and Result. Nobody knows what the interviewer will ask, but you can prepare some answers before the interview. Google is a result-driven company. They will evaluate how you will help them, so think of a situation where you will take specific actions to put Google’s value into action and derive results.

The four criteria
Google evaluates a candidate by four criteria rather than an assessment center, according to Penkhues.

Fit for the Job: Do you have adequate knowledge, experience, and skill for the post you’re applying for?

Leadership Skill: How do you lead in a given situation? Do you have the ability to take responsibility?

Cognitive Skills: How do you make a decision? What are your data source and methods of decision making

Googliness: We pay you to tell us what to do and what not to do. How will you improve Google, and how do you deal with criticism?

You should excel in these four criteria to qualify for the job at Google and a long career within the corporation.

Last but not least: Persistency
As we mentioned above, getting into Google is hard, so you might not get selected on the first try. Be persistent and apply again in 6 months, even if employed elsewhere. Companies are attracted to candidates who have active jobs. And if you don’t get your desired position, our advice is to keep the position while searching for better opportunities.