Seven Lessons From My $60K MBA
A napkin contact will work.

Editorial rights purchased via iStock Photos
An MBA teaches you enough to be dangerous in any aspect of running a business.

It improves your decision-making and helps you get promoted.

I spent $60,000 and long hours studying at The University of Florida, while also working full-time as a financial analyst.

The degree landed me a solid raise and taught me some great, useful tricks you can use outside of an office.

A contract doesn’t need to be complex
One of the great misconceptions is that every contract needs to be an elaborate document.

A tiny handwritten note can work much of the time.

A family friend, George, got a call from one of his friends, Alex. Both of them were well off but Alex had been going through some business problems and a divorce.

“Can I borrow $60,000?” Alex asked.

He’d forgotten about the tax payment on some house or boat deal.

It caught George off guard. He said yes but typed up a quick contract. It was 200 words long and they both signed it.

Sure enough, Alex’s financial woes continued and he tried to get out of repaying.

That tiny slip of paper saved George’s bank account. It didn’t save their friendship.

When someone is fired, has money problems, or is going through a divorce, they have this funny habit of forgetting word-of-mouth deals.

Always have them sign something.

In fact, the very act of proposing a contract is a good stress test. If the other party gets weird, scrunches their face, and gives some long-winded opus on why they can’t sign, bail.

A simple 1-page contract can go a long way.

Words still matter
Joe Pesci gained 40 pounds while preparing to play Angelo Ruggiero in the film Gotti.

At the last moment, producers said they were hiring someone else. Joe didn’t have a contract but he sued and still won.

He had a trail of communication showing he had reason to believe the role was his.

In contract law, this is promissory estoppel. It means if someone promises you something in clear terms, and then reneges on it, they are still liable.

You should aim for a contract. But even still, the other person can’t just say whatever they want without consequences.

Words matter, so mind them very carefully.

The trick to persuasion
The brilliant Aristotle named three key components of persuasion.

They’re taught in business writing and negotiation classes around the world.

1. Ethos (ethics): name your moral standing and credibility.

Example: As a professor of immunology, I strongly advise vaccines. Listen to me or choose to listen to your Uncle Bo Schmo.

2. Pathos (emotion): leverage the emotional impact of your argument.

Example: how would you feel if your child catches the disease and dies?

3. Logos (logic): Craft your message with facts. Use evidence, statistics, analogies, or even hypothetical scenarios

Example: The statistics are clear that vaccines work. People without the vaccine are the vast majority of fatalities.

Big macs measure currency value
The Big Mac Index is a rough but useful way of measuring how the U.S. dollar performs overseas.

It was introduced by The Economist in 1986 and has the lighthearted nickname, Burgenomics.

I can even remember sitting in my international finance class thinking, “Are we really talking about Big Macs right now? I’m hungry.”

It’s a lesson on Purchasing Power Parity, which measures how the price of goods changes by country. It’s a critical lesson for companies doing business overseas.


Where a Big Mac is most costly as of 2021.(The Economist)
If you work remotely and don’t mind a change of scenery, your dollars will go very far in these countries:


Where a Big Mac is cheapest as of 2021. (Chart via via The Economist)
One caveat: avoid very large cities, especially capitals.

Living in Russia might be cheap, especially now, but you can easily blow your life’s money in Moscow.

Having too many options can be bad
Many times, I’ve walked into a store set on buying something.

Then, I looked at rows of the same product, in many colors, brands, and sizes.

Everything looked great. Yet I felt paralyzed. It was too much and I couldn’t decide.

This is the Paradox of Choice: giving too many choices can cause people not to choose any.

This is why a restaurant with an enormous menu feel overwhelming.

Companies often manipulate your choices. They offer you just a handful of options, with one product being an overpriced decoy that they never expect you to buy.

Apple famously listed a highly overpriced iPhone right next to their main product to make it look better. It worked.

You still overpaid.

The key takeaway is that the number of options you present a person matters.

Be strategic. Don’t overwhelm them.

Negotiations trick
Advanced Negotiations was one of the hardest classes I took, partly because it pitted students against one another. The outcomes affected our grades.

In one case, I represented Canadian zoos and wanted to borrow pandas from Chinese zoos.

It caused a long standoff between me and the other person in working out the cost and duration of the panda visits (China owns all pandas).

Statistically, the first person to make an offer in a negotiation tends to do better (they “anchor” their number first). But if you get too greedy, you could embitter the other party and hurt your deal.

If you are going to an extremely important negotiation that could affect your livelihood, do scenario planning beforehand.

List out possible things that might happen. List how you’ll react.

Know your walkaway terms and goal.

Before going, list out things that’ll benefit the other person. Decide what you can easily give them. Try to roll it all into your deal as a negotiation: “I cannot offer that salary, but I can let you work from home if you’d like.”

Show concern and care for what they want.

The ideal result is for both parties to walk away feeling like they got the deal of the century.

It might sound impossible but it really isn’t.

Maximize dollars per headache
Everything in business is about optimization and you should approach your career the same way.

Some job titles are nothing short of torture, many of them being middle management.

You should look through your career with a cold lens of a pain-to-payoff ratio.

There were days in finance when I dearly missed making $9 an hour in retail. I didn’t lose sleep or worry nearly as much.

Ultimately, I liked having money and being able to do things. So I went into finance until I couldn’t take it anymore.

Always begin with the end in mind: what you’ll do if a job is or isn’t going well, and how you plan to eventually retire.

There are so many bad jobs out there and a frightening number of people are complacent to endure and sell themselves short.

Stay restless — until it’s right.