My Floor Is Squeaking. A Jackhammer Wakes Me Up Every Morning. And Homeless Dudes Are Everywhere.
I have had a colorful year, to say the least.

Editorial rights purchased via iStock Photos
I bought my dream house about 15 months ago.

It is beautiful. On the day I moved in, I felt like I’d inherited a small palace.

Sadly, I felt unworthy and undeserving at first. My prior house was the eyesore of its neighborhood. The people who bought it immediately bulldozed it.

I spent all my life’s money on this new house. I spent years being a scrooge, packing my lunch, working to get promotions, and kissing the ring of narcissistic bosses.

Things were initially great. It had this nice new house smell. My girlfriend finally moved in with me and loved living here.

Yet in the first week, I noticed my master bedroom had a problem. It was in a mundane spot in the middle of this tile floor:


via author
You are looking at the squeaking, groaning entrance to my master bathroom.

You shalt not enter without hearing the dark lord’s croak. It was driving me nuts. The builder said he couldn’t fix it without tearing the whole floor out — so I vowed to ignore it.

It didn’t work.

Sometimes, I was sure it is groaning my name and other colorful insults.

Suuucker.

Money pitttt.

Not too long after that, I had a balcony leak.

I’d quasi-expected this. The inspection hadn’t gone great regarding water intrusion (which is an enormous deal anywhere, but especially in Florida). The problem? I was already in the hole for a $30,000 deposit. I either was going to close or sue for partial payback.

I decided to close. Any new house is under a warranty with the builder. They came out several times to repair and caulk the exterior.

Three months later, my ceiling started leaking during the rain.

Months later, Hurricane Ian hit and my windows started crying — on the inside of the house.


author
Even worse, one of my light switches was dripping water, which was alarming given it is a power source.


author
Hurricanes are excellent inspectors. They find all the problems with their tears.

Fortunately — and unfortunately for others — all my neighbor's units had water intrusion issues (we are a townhome community of 11 units).

We gathered forces and sent a letter of demand to have everything reconstructed. No more patching. No more putting bandaids on shotgun wounds.

To his credit, the builder agreed and started rebuilding. It’s an enormous project and very expensive for him. They had to chip out the balcony concrete and strip much of the exterior.

And my new set of problems began
I am a writer — and I work from home.

My office is on the opposite side of my balcony which was getting chipped out.

The jackhammer was so loud that my mouse was moving on my desk. My teeth were chattering from the vibration.

Then, they were stripping the entire exterior of my building, with a dungeon master’s list of loud tools — for five weeks now.

Each week, there is a new weapon of choice. A guy outside my window was hammering at something for hours everyday. I was here, attempting to write an article, and every 8–12 seconds there was one large hit of a hammer on my wall.

It caught me off guard every time.

Bam. Bam.

.

.

.

.

BAM

Now before anyone suggests it, I have noise-canceling headphones. I put those on, and before I do that, I put soft earplugs in.

Yet it still feels like I’m trying to write in the middle of a gunfight. Sometimes, I laugh at the absurdity of it all.

Scaffolding wraps around my entire house. None of the workers speak English and most are from Mexico.

I thought the job seemed intolerably hard until I went to Cancun earlier this month. I learned construction workers in Mexico make $12–$15 a day. So I can see why these workers have such great attitudes despite the hard work.


My office window. I often get visotrs.
I opened the above window one time while workers were standing there. I said, “Bienvenido a McDonald’s, ¿Puedo tomar su pedido?” (Welcome to McDonald's, how can I take your order?)

They laughed.

I felt cool.

For a second.

I often hear mariachi music trickling in through my office window as I type. I’ve grown to like a few songs.

And then the drill starts. The drill — that sounds like I’m inside someone’s skull during brain surgery.

There’s another device, that I can’t even name — which sounds like an angry woodpecker, trying to find worms on a metal playground slide.

The concrete guys start at 7:15 AM. He beats his concrete tub to break up the dried concrete. It sounds like an out-of-tune timpani.

Complicating matters, there’s a night construction project across the street.

Sleep has become a strategic act, one of opportunism that squeezes into the tranquil cracks of so much chaos. And for every minute I get, I am grateful.

Compound all of this with loitering homeless people near our property and an uptick in crime, prostitution, and drug use within our eyeshot, and it’s been a colorful year.

The good news
First, the construction is probably going to resolve all of my issues. I’m not going to have to front $50,000 and sue for the money.

Two, the interior is still nice. We love the house and being inside it (under normal conditions).

Three, we have great neighbors, who have been good fellows on this journey.

Lastly, I noticed something very peculiar. Somewhere along the way, another problem was resolved.

The groaning floor in my master bedroom has fallen into the arms of anonymity. I no longer notice, nor am I bothered by it.

And so yet again I have learned — that in life, every problem is relative.