Medium Earnings. How much I made as a new medium writer
Medium earnings update for Sept 2020 to Jan 2021

Youtube Video Detailing my earnings.
Medium is one of the few spaces on which I am proud and grateful to share a stage with a lot of brilliant minds.

Besides great ideas, it’s really wonderful to read a story without being bombarded with several ads and ad-less platforms are realities that I now believe to be truly practical.

Gone are the days where I would write lengthy Facebook posts that no one read.

Medium has made it much easier to not only hold my horses but also keep’em when it comes to channeling my thoughts and brain dump onto social media.

Writing on Medium has been rewarding in so many areas mentally and financially. And today I talk about the financial reward.

Why I’m doing this.
I have always loved talking about finances and the best way in which to allocate financial resources. As an engineer, my other favorite activity besides channeling my creativity in design, engineering, art, and writing is managing finances.

I love talking about money, making accountability, and strategies to grow the money through wise investments.

This is why I am made the video on youtube detailing how much I made since starting on medium and how much I intend on making the following months moving forward.

It is also my way of keeping myself accountable and making sure that I can reach the goals I intend on reaching.

I also want this to serve as an inspiration and documentation not just for me but also for other people who will be starting in the future.

The results and earnings.
My results on the platform have been slowly rising ever since I started in mid-September last year.

I only had one month when I saw a decline as you will see but let's get into the details.

September 2020: $1.50
I started writing in mid-September 2020 and although I started halfway, I wrote so many articles that altogether earned me $1.50.

I remember that I had one article curated and this is why I was able to make that much money.

I wrote about 20 articles and it is the month I wrote the most amount of articles to date.

As I have already mentioned in the video, after taxes and bank charges, I was left with $1.04.

October 2020: $6.12
There was a jump here in my earnings and this was because I decided to learn more about how to succeed on medium and decided that I would add my work to publications.

In September, most of what I wrote never found a home in any publication because I didn’t even try.

Adding my stories to publications helped boost my earnings by more than 5 times.

After taxes and fees, I ended up making $4.24 which then brought my cumulative total to $5.32 on which my bank took $3 and that brought me to a net cumulative total of $2.28.

As you can see. Even if I made $6.12, much of that went into fees and taxes and my take-home was just over a dollar.

November 2020: $5.16
This was a month of so many disappointments since my true lessons on medium had really started.

This is the month that I posted the least as well because I was still getting so many rejections from my dream publications.

Better marketing and better humans publications for example have never accepted and of my stories. I don’t pitch Better humans much but at least for Better marketing, I make sure to pitch as much as possible but they have never accepted me.

This doesn’t bother me as much as it did then, however. November was the first month I got rejected by this publication and it hurt so bad I took a two-week break to get my ducks in a row.

I ended up publishing not more than 6 stories and starting a publication of my own too.

After taxes, I made $3.61 and my net cumulative earnings in this year brought my total earnings to $2.85.

December 2020: $7.06
In December, my ego had stopped throwing a tantrum over rejections and I decided to get back to work publishing about 10 stories this month.

I also got accepted to publications that I knew as big publications. My articles that got in are responsible for the money I made but also articles I wrote this month still performed well even in the month that followed.

This $7.06 after taxes came down to $4.94 and this brought my new net earnings to $4.74 after subtracting all the charges from the bank as well.

So we can say that for the first 3.5 months on medium, I had made $3.5

January 2021: $29.32
The new year came with new resolutions. Here my priorities were not to publish as many stories. I like to think of myself as a fast writer but I do not have the mental space to balance high quality with high volume yet. So I decided to go for the high-quality option while keeping the volume relatively moderate.

I am not yet to the level where I can write one story that earns several hundreds of thousands of views in a month. So I have to find a balance that can help me keep the volume moderately high while making the quality really high.

I also brought in the techniques from the earlier months that had been positive contributors to my growth.

I added publishing in bigger publications, different publications, and also self-publishing which I am still testing but will talk about in future posts.

The combination of those coupled with the quality led me to publish about 9 stories that and making $29.32.

This money after taxes came to $20.52. This ended up making my net total earning on medium a whole $21.27 after bank charges.

So we can say that for my entire time on medium I have made $21.27.

This brings my total to $4.7/month~$1.2/week~$0.2/day~$0.02/hour

Moving forward
For February, My goal is to make $1000 as I have already mentioned in the video and there are some strategies that I have in mind which will help me achieve this goal.

My results are not spectacular but they show progress. This is only my reality and I know many people have different experiences.

Documenting my journey helps me to look back and see how far I have come and to lay better strategies for a more productive career here.

Do not compare your results to mine if they do not add to your development in some way. Even I don’t compare my future results to determine my future income. I only look to becoming better and follow the actions I must take to meet those ideals.

The results will become better as I become better at this and I hope to document this will help not just me but anyone else on the writing journey to keep going.