April Medium Earnings: Transparency and How Writing More Led Me To Earn Less 🤡
A transparent medium journey of the triumphs and the oops
If you have access to the listen feature, I'd encourage you to try it out! This is a bit of a long piece! ♥ Thank you all the same for your support. 

Photo by Estúdio Bloom on Unsplash
Image Description: Hard-boiled egg pattern with some open eggshells and also sunny side-up eggs.

Purpose of this series: We’re entering month four of my project of being transparent about my earnings through the Medium Partner Program! For the uninitiated, I’m writing this series to offer my perspective as a mostly poetry writer on a platform that really emphasizes the “wow I’m upset because I no longer make $10k per article” pitted against the “I wrote 62 articles this month and earned two and a half cents (impossible, exaggeration)”.

I am also specifically egged on by 
brian g gilmore (bumpyjonas)
 who said, on last month’s review:

I love this series.

I am an artist because one time in junior kindergarten my teacher praised me. I am a writer because one time in third grade my teacher celebrated some story I wrote. This series now solely exists on the fumes of Brian’s comment, which is likely going to fuel me for another 8 months, regardless of whether anyone reads it. Yep? Yep. 😆

(Tangent: But is this not every creator’s origin story? They were complimented once in their formative years and now they create eternally to chase that high? Just me? Cool cool cool.)

Transparency on how much I’ve earned
$62.91 before taxes
$44.04 after taxes (-30%) :(
$55.51 CAD after taxes

This is the lowest amount that I’ve earned in the past few months, shy $5 from the roughly $60ish to $70ish amounts that I earn on a more regular basis. I’m not too sad though, mostly because any amount I earn on a platform that allows me to host the million thoughts that go through my head in a day is positive addition into my income.

However, like others have pointed out, it’s measly when it comes to envisioning that this could one day be a full-time, livable wage. For now, this amount is enough for 13kg of popcorn kernels, where I can get voraciously get through 1kg (of kernels) per month. Thus, I have earned enough for 1kg of popcorn for a year plus one bonus month.

How wild is that!?!

Top Articles
Come celebrate and reflect with me what made it to the top of the list!

#1: Writing Poetry Isn’t Profitable
Writing Poetry Isn’t Profitable
a poem and a discussion — what do you think?
medium.com

I laughed when I saw that this was the top-earning article of the month. Precisely. The title says it all. Poetry writing doesn’t seem profitable. It seems “on brand” for my lowest earning month.

These past four months of reflecting on my writing income has showed me this much. Yet, it does not despair me. In fact, I think naming the phenomenon has helped me cope and grow.

I think before, I just held this feeling of “this sucks” and “I am frustrated”, which feels disembodied and non-actionable.

Now, I can name where the conflict is, within me.

I love writing poetry, and like many others, I want to be able to make doing what I love a way of funding my life. That’s the ideal “American dream” (or Canadian dream?).
Writing poetry doesn’t really pay all the bills.
Writing poetry paid one bill, which is not nothing.
Rather than simply feeling frustrated at odds, getting to see each thought through this piece was powerful.

It meant that I can honour and be grateful for the fact that writing poetry, doing what I love, paid one bill. Every month, I compare my income to the purchase of a ridiculous amount of something. Last month, it was boba. This month, it was popcorn kernels.

It also means that being grateful doesn’t mean stagnancy. The fact that writing poetry doesn’t pay all the bills bothers me. I have the audacity to dream that it will. Listen to that again. I have the audacity to dream that it will.

So.

Watch me.

What I learned: You can be grateful for what you have and have the audacity to dream big. Along the way, you meet cool people with cool ideas. You heal from some of the wounds you started with, and you make some new ones. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
#2: March Medium Earnings Transparency & New Goals Admist A Turbulent Move
March Medium Earnings Transparency & New Goals Amidst a Turbulent Move
A transparent medium journey ♥
medium.com

By the fourth month of doing this project, I am not surprised that these monthly articles always trend on my list. While the previous three months brought me embarrassment, by this fourth month, I am unabashed.

It may be because of Brian's (in my mind, I call him Bumpy) specific encouragement. I’m not joking slightly that I will be surviving off this one singular compliment for the next 6 months.

It may be because lately, I’ve been embracing cognitive defusion, a technique of decoupling thoughts that go together.

I realized I felt embarrassed because of the broken etiquette, both on Medium and off-platform, of talking about what you earn. I realized that this etiquette comes from the idea of not wanting to boast and make someone else feel less than for earning a different amount.

This feeling can exist alongside the other reason why I’m being transparent about what I earn on Medium: because the hush hush about the middle part of Medium keeps creators in the dark about what feels realistic depending on different writer factors.

In this fourth month of this project, then, I am becoming unabashed about earning the most out of this article. It is a sign that either it’s popular with the crowd, or one (1) particular person is spending a majority of their subscription reading this. Whether it caters briefly to a crowd or is valuable to one person, is valuable nonetheless.

What I learned: Speak about what you think is important. This doesn't have to be at odds with the feedback you get, whether societal or specific. Societal systems you are trying to dismantle may not necessarily be wrong, but maybe hold values that you can still be aligned with, without necesarily following outdated rules of embracing them. 
#3: Today, I’m writing to be heard
Today, I’m Writing To Be Heard
a poem
medium.com

I did a little dance when this made it to the list of top articles of the month. For one, I’ve personally felt quite unheard about this topic, or at least felt the weight of opposing sides, not quite ever fully embracing the in-between.

I think there’s a time and place for listicles and advice columns that say, here, embrace steps 1, 2 and 3. These are easy to digest and usually apply to many people, and that’s why they exist in the world. They’re valuable for simplicity.

Yet, despite the simplicity of these advice pieces, we as human beings are complex. How many times have you tried a technique that was popular and it flopped? (Mindfulness, I’m looking fiercely at you). In those moments, did you feel less than for simply not being able to make these pieces of advice fit you?

This poem is embodying that feeling of failure, of not quite being able to adhere to two different sides of an argument of how to be. No single choice was perfect. I did have to sacrifice aspects of myself in order to preserve other aspects of me.

That step is difficult, and often unheard of. Sometimes a technique or a choice or an idea is so popular that noting that it came with consequences is unpopular to share, even if the net outcome was positive.

In chaos, we might strive towards simplicity to cope. Yet, I’m starting to wonder if simplicity in today’s atmosphere has become about extreme views simplified beyond that actual intricacies of existing. I wonder if we’re about to swing back into the other direction, embracing more of the nuances.

That’s what I heard from this piece being the top. I heard: “we want more nuance”.

What I learned: People want to hear about the nuance. They want to be hearing about the specific instances and lived experiences and emotions. There is a time and place for listicles and common denominator-type articles that help us learn key lessons, and there is a time to hear about how someone else took these lessons (especially ones that contrast) and lived with them. 
#4: How to create threads seamlessly on twitter
How to Create Threads Seamlessly on Twitter
A (non-sponsored) review of the Typefully App
medium.com

Evergreen alert! I know, I know, I just waxed poetic about feelings and lived experiences and nuances being popular, but there’s also an obvious space for life hacks and guides on this platform.

This one in particular, published in Dec 2020, wasn’t recently promoted to my knowledge, but netted the fourth most income this month.

Yes, it was curated/ distributed.

Yes, I know curation on this platform is a topic of much discussion. Yet, despite all the commotion, no one truly knows. Some people get curated and never read. Some people never get curated and have bajillions (exaggeration, or not, depends who you are) of reads.

It’s truly an exercise of cognitive defusion as well. I try not to get too attached about how good curation can be with these surprises, while making the space to celebrate once in a while. I also try not to get too disappointed if writing on medium wasn’t as fruitful for a month, as this month was. I’m mellowing out.

And damn, mellow and boring has felt good lately.

What I learned: I won't knock curation. It's not perfect, but sometimes, it'll give me a nice surprise a year and a half down the road. Don't give up if curation doesn't instantly give you exposure. 
#5: Followers Don’t Matter Anymore — How I really support my writers at The Brain is a Noodle!
Followers Don’t Matter Anymore — How I Really Support My Writers at The Brain is a Noodle
and honestly, how I support all writers I love on Medium
medium.com

This is another one from the archives, and there have been some changes to what I had previously written about! I should do a full update, but can share some briefly below.

In short, I no longer add to private lists because I realized that I was reading pieces first published over nine months ago. Instead, I wrote my own program so that I can drop potential reads into an archive, and then when I hit another button, it’ll spit out a piece at random. That way, it could have been added just now, or 2 years ago. it’s a surprise.

I still Tweet to amplify other writers on other platforms.

I still amplify other writers at the bottom of each of my articles, but there’s an important change. Several writers have left notes to tell me that I’m annoying, which frankly was a hard pill to swallow, but I hear the feedback amongst the harsh words. It’s annoying to be notified about something, particularly if you didn’t want to read it, even if the piece is trying to promote your own writing. Though I would personally never leave a nasty note over something that came out of kindness, I can also honour boundaries set, even if imperfectly. So, now I do not tag people when I share their articles in my articles. If you haven’t been tagged for a while, it’s not because I’ve forgotten about you! It’s just that I no longer tag folks to reduce any annoying notifications.

What I learned: There are different ways of achieving the same goal, and I can be flexible. I can receive feedback, albeit harshly given. I prefer kindly provided feedback, but have also learned not to tone police especially in empathy of people who might be at the end of their rope on something and just needed to be heard. How we support other writers can be very different, and I'll continue to work on that.
Flop Articles
Come give these some love and reflect with me!

Vent Art
Vent Art
a poem
medium.com

When I first wrote this piece in October 2021, using vent art as a coping skill was a new shiny thing to me. Like every new shiny thing, I overused it to see where it would fit and where it didn’t, and then had to pull back because the novelty had settled.

Now, I’m back into a more moderate use of vent hart. This is because I’ve experienced the height of trying to use vent art to solve every single problem, to b) avoiding this coping skill altogether because it wasn’t solving literally everything. (It would be unreasonable for one single tip to solve everything under the stars, yet sometimes, my brain would like to hope).

I love that change and mellowing out. I love that I get to see that in a few short months (just half a year!), there’s growth. If I were to just rely on memory, I wouldn't know at all.

Not every piece may earn you money, but having written means that you may glean other important values from having written, such as 
a) documenting for reflection and growth
and
b) venting and healing. 
They didn’t invent paper for this reason, but here I am now
They Didn’t Invent Paper For This Reason, But Here I Am Now
a poem and a writing challenge
medium.com

Okay, so, this poem actually makes me so emotional? Why ??? Because identity???

I hate to depict myself as someone who just constantly struggles with cultural identity because, you know, not every Asian Canadian person is like this, but I am, especially given the things that have happened to me. And I think sometimes I try to hide it rather than celebrate it.

And this piece? On the surface, I think many people can relate to the productivity tip of managing your energy rather than your time, in poetry form. On a writer-filled platform, writing in journals is something we can all relate to.

And then, on a deeper unspoken level, I can speak into the existence of something I constantly think about: how grateful for my ancestors to have invented paper, for someone who became someone who hates communication by voice/listening.

There are the big ways that one might connect and honour their ancestors (e.g., specific festivities), or regular ways of honouring traditions (e.g., filial piety); and not all of us have access to these ways. For someone who truly feels cut off at the roots, I am stealing these moments. They are mine.

Not every piece will earn you money, but having written means I got to connect with others and also inject just a tiny dose of what I often feel too much of an imposter to embrace, just small enough that it’s a tiny step that doesn’t trigger the whole cascade of feeling not being enough. 
Tell Your Story…
Tell your story…
a poem
medium.com

Now that I’m more actively practicing mindfulness, I’m starting to notice the little details that are littered everywhere, especially ones that I’ve habituated to and eventually no longer notice.

For example, do you notice the little designs that each platform gives you?

Twitter famously has a greyed-out “what’s happening?” in the text box, something that becomes ignored as you use the platform more regularly.

Medium has one that says “tell your story”.

I feel like it’s so on-brand for Medium. Though it’s become a platform where listicles and advice prevail (because that’s what draws the eyeballs), the memoirs, the stories, and the lived experiences are what give it substance.

To further that, it’s not just the memories and memoirs that teach a lesson, or were shocking, or were so unique (though there is a very important space for that here on Medium), but also the mundane. I think that mundane was particularly important during the pandemic, for people to connect to the normal in absence of true normalcy.

Thus, I’m learning from this piece that anything can be a source of inspiration.

Not every piece will earn you money, but may teach you to glean inspiration and starting points from just about anything.
What childhood memories did you miss out on that you tried to revive as an adult?
What childhood memories did you miss out on that you tried to revive as an adult?
Were you the “hang-out-at-the-mall” generation? Did you get to frolic in nearby creeks and forests and hills…
medium.com

Moving into my thirties, I’m really noticing how heavily my life is being shaped by advertising. Growing up, most of my childhood may have been shaped by parental or societal values, or by school, but moving out of the education system and out of this structured “by X years old, you’re supposed to be doing Y” is where I’m starting to see other pieces of the world seep in. Unfortunately, a lot of these values in this day and age are motivated by what sells.

Even stories we see on TV aren’t just “stories unfolding”. They are peppered with product placements to teach us what lifestyle we should want, against other sources of information that may shape our values (e.g., our own curiosity, our cultural upbringing, actual function in our lives, etc.)

Someone once told me that what we liked to do when we were 10 s a pretty good predictor of what we really wanted deep in our hearts. Guess what? At age 10, I collected rocks, crocheted, read and wrote. At 30, this is also what I want to do, sans the collect rocks.

Tangent: (Some people collect rocks as in they curate pretty or interesting rocks. I collected rocks as a kid in that I saw a rock, I picked up the rock, now the rock is mine. I no longer fill the void within with rocks, thank goodness.)

The question arising from this short piece dove into the values from the past, including the deams forgotten and abandoned in aisle 5 (childhood).

Not every piece will earn you money, but may teach you to recenter your values to your own true North, rather than of one marketed to us.
Backwards Meal order
Backwards Meal Order
a poem and a lifestyle choice
medium.com

Finally, can we make space for this piece, first published in Jul 13, 2021? Then, I was a little bit lactose intolerant, and I still ate this cake.

Now, I am very lactose intolerant, and I cannot eat cheesecake, at all. Not even with lactaid/lactase.

You can never predict how life will turn out, and this fun little piece that I thought wouldn’t hold much value to me in the future now means everything.

It was a snapshot of the dairy days. Oh how I miss you so.

Not everyone will earn you money, but may let you mourn what foods you used to be able to eat lol
Interim Lessons from Top and Flop Articles
Here’s the summary!

Top Articles:
1. Writing poetry isn't profitable, but 
2. Writing about writing and income is, and
4. Writing evergreen life tips feeds you indefinitely, but also,
3. People want to hear about nuance!
5. Between these opposing sides, it's important to find your own compass, and to know how to be flexible in reaching your own goals. 
Yes, it doesn’t count upwards because I wanted to depict the side-by-side lessons of seemingly conflicting advice, and how # 5 sums it all up as “there are truths in every piece of advice, it just matters who you fit that puzzle piece into your own self”.

Flop Articles
Writing can earn us money, yes, but can be so much more!
1. Documentation of growth
2. Connecting with others
3. Seeing the world with fresh eyes
4. A journey of finding your own guiding compass
5. (highly specific) helping Lucy mourn her lactose intake 
Please drop a milk emoji to join me in mourning my dairy days. 🥛

Methods of Promotion
Here are methods of promotion that I still use and are working for me!

Email-a-day: If you find an old piece from your archive that hasn’t been mailed to subscribers recently (e.g., in the past year), you can click the three dots and select “email to subscribers”. It’s been a great way to get new eyes on old pieces!
Twitter: I’m very active on Twitter (276.5k+ tweets) and naturally, it’s a place where I also share my own Twitter pieces. I’ve found such a great Medium community on there, and have introduced others I’ve met on the #WritingCommunity tag into Medium too. It’s a good mix of two worlds!
Tumblr: I always share this with a caveat because Tumblr can be a dumpster fire of a social media platform, but, truthfully, because I have been an active user since I was a teen, I’ve just been sharing my own pieces on this platform in an organic, interactive way, and it works! So, this is less of a “advertise on Tumblr!!!” and more of an encouragement of posting on the platforms that you actually use.
Pinterest: Pinterest is the SEO winner here, actually. While little to no one I know posts on Pinterest from Medium, I’ve learned from many other non-Medium writers and bloggers that Pinterest can be a huge pull. Pinterest isn’t really social media, but rather a place where users actively search for topics to pin, with the intention of returning to the pins and boards. So, if you have the right visual designs posted to Pinterest, it can actually generate a lot of evergreen views for your content.
Places I No Longer Promote On
Reddit: I’m taking a break from Reddit! I still find it intriguing as a relatively new user, but I think there’s a lot for me to learn in terms of interacting with the community before I just throw articles out there. Linking back to what I shared about Tumblr, I think being successful in sharing your own content on a platform involves understanding the platform as an active user, so that what you share isn’t just spam, it’s stuff that you can get others excited about. And Reddit? I’m still learning.
Instagram: If you’ve followed my writing journey, you’ll have seen me flip flop at the rate of once every 2 weeks on whether I promote on Instagram. It’s such a hamster wheel of a platform that can be so promising, if you hit jackpot. Very few hit jackpot. I hear more stories about people burning out, even people who have succeeded on this platform. So. From time to time I get the inspiration to create something more (e.g., I posted a series of tiny poems to my account last month), but sometimes I also just desire to quit. I do not grit on Instagram; I do not grit on a platform that only takes, only sells, and does not give. You can, however, choose to see how many omelettes I burn for breakfast on a given week, though.
Hi, I’m 
Lucy Dan 蛋小姐 (she/her/她)
 and I’m on a mission to document my writing journey through the Mediumsphere. Medium-verse? ?!?!?!