How to write a blog post in medium & earn money
Everything you need to do to earn money in Medium

Photo by Nick Morrison on Unsplash
Set Up Medium account
Get a blog idea
Choose a perfect title & image
Structure your content
Add toppings to your content
Things to keep in mind to be successful in Medium
Read it aloud
Choose SEO tags
Submit to Medium
Don’t relax, write more
1. Set up Medium account
First things first, let’s create an account in the Medium here. I would recommend using any social media account so that you can log in quickly every time. Now that you’ve account in the Medium, you can start writing by clicking a new story option in the popup, which will appear when you click on your profile pic in the top-right corner.

At this point, you’ve only created an account to write blogs in the Medium but not linked any bank accounts to get paid. Although you can start to write without any payment account initially, I recommend you to finish this step right away.

Medium only accepts Stripe as its payment gateway. All you need to do is create an account in Stripe here and link it to your Medium account here. In addition to that, you need to add a bunch of details like your physical address and tax info.

That’s all you are good to go.

2. Get a blog idea
If you’re a beginner in the Medium, I highly suggest you take time and find out what you’re passionate about and on which category of articles are thriving in the Medium that you’re interested in.

The next step is to create a blog post. First, you’ve to decide what you’re going to write. In my case, I keep a stack of ideas in my Evernote that occurred to me while I’m reading(books, articles ), watching youtube videos or tv shows on Netflix.

Find your way of procreating ideas, in my experience, I found people have different approaches like while you’re using social media, talking to your friends and family, going on a walk & so on.

3. Choose a perfect title & image.
It would be best if you did homework before you start writing on Medium, like exploring the viral articles in Medium to find out if there any platform-specific things you need to implement.

In medium Title, Subtitle and cover photo are essential. It makes your article look cool on the medium home page, and your follower’s feed. If you carefully read medium curators guidelines, you would find how important to have these things in your article.

4. Structure your content
Let’s get into the content part. First, you should outline the article so that you will have a decent idea of what to concentrate on each section of the article. It’s better to have at least 1000 words as the medium partner program’s primary focus is on reading time.

After outlining, I usually end up with five to eight sentences, which I treat as headers and write appropriate content in each section, like the ten points at the top of this article. If you’ve one or two lines of content scrambled over here and there, then try to structure them into paragraphs so that it will look authentic.

5. Add toppings to your content.
You’ve completed the tricky part. It’s time to make platform-specific changes or if you want to add you’re own style like adding appropriate quotes to inspire the readers.

In Medium, there are some things you can do to make your article stand out in structure-wise, like highlighting meaningful sentences, separating sections, and many more. To see all the customization's click here.

6. Things to keep in mind to be successful in Medium
“To make money, you should spend money.”

At this point, you’ve finished the work that you can do on your own. I highly advise you to use an online grammar checker like Grammarly, ginger, or anything, even the most famous writers use them. Go for paid versions of those tools. In the long run, it’ll help to improve writing skills more than you imagine. Curators won’t pick articles with grammatical mistakes so make sure to double check grammar in your article.

Now it’s time to take help from others, send your draft to your friends or family, and get the feedback or post in any writing community channels and ask for there suggestions.

7. Read out loud
Now it’s time to be a reader, take a cup of coffee, and make yourself comfortable then start reading out. You must read it out. Only then you realize how it’s going to be in your audience’s perspective. You’ll see the benefits once you started doing it. I do it before publishing every article, and it always helped me to see how the flow is going to be for the readers.

8. Choose SEO tags
Choosing the right SEO tags is one of the essential things. Based on tags, your article is going to be in one of the categories like tech, productivity, writing. So to get to the right audience, this is the most critical step.

By default, you can add five tags. Please make use of them, fill all five tags. Before picking your tags, do your homework. See what tags are most used in the popular articles related to your present article concept and choose relevant tags.

9. Submit to Medium
This is the final step to publish your article in Medium. You can post the article directly, clicking the publish button in the top right corner before that don’t forget to select appropriate tags and make sure the partner paywall is active.

While on the other hand, Medium has a concept of publications, No matter which category your article belongs to, there will be a well-established publications that accepts your work. Submit your article to a publication instead of publishing directly. In this way, If your article isn’t picked by curators, then it has a scope of reaching more people like publication followers; some publications also promote articles in their social media.

10. Don’t relax, write more.
Well, its grate you’ve published your first article, an excellent job. The truth is, nobody cares. You’ve to create the content daily. It’s the only way you can be successful through blogging.

Reaching people has never been simple than now; all you need to do is produce the content consistently. Many of you do not even create 100 pieces of content even in a year, do you know how dumb I think you’re, because of that.

Don’t be a writer who gave up way too soon. Be consistent and patient with your process. Keep in mind, things that come quickly won’t stay long. Everything great should be hard.

You can find me on Medium, Twitter and LinkedIn.

Thank you for reading.