Turn a 49-Cent Medium Story Into an International Publishing Business
Do more with less traffic

Photo by Eric X on Unsplash
Idon’t get paid much for my Medium stories. Not compared to some of the top writers. Sure, it’s plenty of money for an extra monthly bonus, but the partner program isn’t what makes Medium so great.

We earn pennies per read.

Doesn’t matter how many followers you have. For most Medium writers this means you also earn pennies per story. That’s a rough way to squeeze the rent money every month.

We could dig holes or be one of the arrow sign spinners outside the ‘going out of business’ store, and earn more money than we do writing for Medium.

Instead, we write because we have to. We can’t not write. The writing is baked-inside, with the cheese doodles and the lungs and stuff.

Medium has helped me build an international publishing business in 101 countries (and growing). And I operate 98% of this business from my pocket.

The strategy is to publish every day (or as often as possible).

Write to a single niche, because we want to grow a tribe of people on our own platform. If we try and gather everyone, we’ll have a tribe of no one.

At the bottom of every. single. story. include a One-Liner that invites people to your free, Easy Invite.

Think of each Medium story like a tiny oil derrick. Pumping a couple drips of oil per day.

The pump works whether your present or not. Whether you’re awake or not. Whether you’re on vacation or not.

Maybe you earn 49 cents for the life of the story, but you also gained three new members of your tribe. Those new members could be worth thousands over their lifetime with you.

Oh, and speaking of money, if you’re a writer or creator I built a free email masterclass for you. I hand-crafted the whole thing. It took me a couple months. I call the masterclass the Tribe 1K.

The start of the new year is a great time to start (or grow) your email list.

I’ll show you how to get your first 1,000 (or your next 1,000) readers without spending a hot nickel on ads. Past students include New York Times bestselling authors. Yep, the ones you see in the bookstore.

Your email list will help you build a legacy creative business.

If you want to grow your creative business you need email before you lose that valuable reader’s attention. Start your list before you need one. Once you need a list it’s almost too late.

Tap the link.

Guarantee your seat before I start to charge an enrollment fee.

We’re waiting for you.

Enroll in my Free Email Masterclass. Get Your First 1,000 Subscribers

August Birch (AKA the Book Mechanic) is both a fiction and non-fiction author from Michigan, USA. As a self-appointed email marketing expert for writers and creators, August helps indies make more work that sells and sell more work they make. The core of August’s process is your email list. When he’s not writing or thinking about writing, August hangs-out with his beautiful wife and handsome son, carries a pocket knife, and shaves his head with a safety razor.

