My First Month On Medium — Earnings Reveal
I crushed my goal of earning at least $5 in my first month

Photo by Shane on Unsplash
When I joined Medium for about a month ago it was indeed with the intention of joining the Medium Partner Program — being eligible to earn money. I wanted to see how much I could earn in the first month with consistency and hard work. So this is what I did.

The 100 Followers Threshold — How I Achieved It
Before I could earn any money on Medium, I had to gain at least 100 followers to join the partner program. So in the first seven days my focus was solely on building my audience. I researched a bit and found different opinions on how to gain followers. Some recommended I used the follow-for-follow method, while others insisted on me just writing valuable content, and the followers would come. On the one hand, I wanted those followers quickly, and on the other hand I could totally see the logic in just writing content and wait for my followers to arrive.

But I chose a combination. I told myself that my content was valuable, and by following other people they would just discover me quicker. I also chose to interact and give my honest opinion on people’s articles — and boom, within seven days I had gained above 100 followers.

📝 Writing & Publishing
My first articles I wrote did not grab much attention, but it did not make lose hope. In fact, I just enjoyed the process of writing, and suddenly I did not focus on the potential earnings anymore. That was exactly what I needed. A real motivation for writing instead of just having money on my mind. The days went by, and I got more claps and positive feedback, which just encouraged me to write even more, so that’s what I did.

About 16 days in, I got my first semi-viral article, which is the one below.

20 Ways To Make $2000/Month — How I Do It
How cool would it be to have $2000 rolling into your bank account each month? That amount of money could free up a lot…
medium.com

💰 My earnings
To this day the semi-viral article has about 2,850 views, an average reading time of 2 min. and 30 seconds, and it has earned me $9.32.


Image showing the stats of the most viral article — Screenshot by author
Originally my goal was to just cross the $5 mark, and this one article certainly helped me accomplish this, but it does not stop here. In fact I wrote about 45 articles in my first month, and most of them earned me some kind of money.



Screenshots provided by author
Here are two random examples of earnings from some of my articles. But that’s not all, because two people actually chose to sign up to Medium using my link, which I really appreciate. I guess it must be sign of me providing real value.


Screenshot provided by author
The two sign ups increased my total earnings by an additional $4.54, which resulted in me earning $19 in total in my first month.


Screenshot provided by the author
Additional earnings
The nextcoming earnings are not directly associated with Medium, but I would not have earned this amount of money without Medium. Thus I would like to include them to show all the earnings I received thanks to Medium.


Image of ebook sales — Screenshot by author
I promoted my book in my most viral article, which resulted in me also getting 6 sales that added an additional $34.94 to my earnings in May. This means in my first month on Medium I earned $53.94, which is far beyond what I have ever imagined possible.

🔑 Key Takeaways
Consistency and hard work are key.
If you write valuable content people will sign up to read your articles through your link, so focus on creating value.
Promote other work you’ve done to earn additional extra money each month, but don’t overdo it.
I hope this can encourage new writers or old writers to just continue or even work harder. I think everything is possible if you just set up your mind to it.