My Medium Earning Stats and Tips on How to Make More Money — November — Ongoing Updates

This article is a case study of my progress and lessons on Medium; if you are a new writer on Medium, please scroll down and start reading from June’s report as I share the latest studies and discoveries I found throughout my progress on Medium. If you find conflicting ideas, remember that I always find new insights according to new data.

This article is only a presentation of the behavior of Medium, not a personal view of how writers must behave or interact with the platform; therefore, kindly don’t judge me personally. If you insist on fighting me, do the following first:

Please read the entire case study and understand the point behind it.
Please read the comments of fellow writers and my answers to their questions.
Ask a question politely and back your argument with facts and evidence, not an ideal point of view and emotions. I will respect you and answer your question logically.
I will block rude or negative people who talk without civil communication skills.
November’s Report
For over 7 Months, I have been active on Medium; I have published 225 articles, responded with 2531 comments, and gained 4,029 followers while following no one but a single publication, The Hub Publication.


Nour Boustani — Total articles and responses

November /2022 Stats
Story stats

Views: 4,461
Reads:1,333
Fans:686

Nour Boustani — November 2022 story stats
I have tried to publish around six weekly articles with an average read time of five to seven minutes. I have published four articles with the Mind Cafe Publication; one was published on The Writing Cooperative, and two in the Illumination, while the rest I published with The Hub Publication.

Even though a prominent publication has a big audience, you will still have a limited distribution of your stories. The idea that publishing with big publications will earn you big money and views is a myth.

Publishing with big publications might give you the potential to reach more people than publishing on your own. Still, the algorithm and the number of people who recognize your brand and read your content matter more than publishing with a significant publication.

My plan now is to focus on writing with two publications, one is significant, and the other is small; I have to make their readers familiar with my name and content.

I’m assuming that the more frequently I publish around a specific topic in a single publication, the more probable reads I will get from readers seeking to solve a problem I talk about consistently.

Tips updates:

I gave $40 tips to eight writers and received $20 from four generous ones. You can see my complete tips report on my Ko-Fi wall.

Audience stats

Followers:4,029
Email subscribers:109
Referred members:4

Nour Boustani — November 2022 audience stats
Earnings stats

Story earnings: $111.90
Referred members’ earnings: $9.08
Total November/2022 revenues: $120.98
Earning growth compared to the previous month:

May’s earnings: $13.34
June’s earnings: $172.20
July’s earnings: $215.92
August’s earnings: $130.74
September’s earnings: $229.34
October’s earnings: $151.05
November’s earnings: $120.98
Total earnings: $1,033.57


Nour’s November Earnings

November Earnings
Total read time went down by almost twenty hours compared to the previous month.


Total read time
I know you are saying that views are going down, earnings are going down, and everything is heading downward; you might think that there is something I might be doing wrong or there is a change in the platform.

You might be right with the first one, but you are accurate with the second. Medium has been making many changes lately and following the new trend of social platforms cutting distribution and earnings by a minimum of 50%.

I teach on Skillshare and other platforms, and my earnings went down by 60% in a single adjustment from the platform.

I teach on Udemy, and for one month, I get higher earnings and the following one, less money without any interference. We don’t know how people behind dashboards control distribution and earnings.

Till this point, I have tested the following:

I participated in comment for comment but found that most people won’t comment back, which is unscalable.
I Posted two articles a day for seven days a week and found that my audience started to get bored, and my earnings went down.
I wrote longer articles, yet my total reading time went down.
I gained more followers, yet I earned less money.
My total read time increased, yet my earnings went down.
This is what I know for now:

I can double my current earnings and views by engaging with as many people as possible and hoping some will read my articles.

My problem with the approach is that it’s not scalable; I’m not looking for slight increases in earnings; to someone who lives in the united states, it won’t make a big difference earning an extra $100.

Big names seldom engage with others, yet they get much higher views and reads because they get more distribution, and their brand is recognized around a specific topic across a specific platform.

For the next month, I will stick to a topic or two and publish with a single significant publication and another small one familiarizing my brand with their readers. Let’s see how things work! 🤞

October’s Report
For over 177 days, I have been active on Medium. I have published 196 articles, responded with 2261 comments, and gained 3,532 followers while following no one.


Nour Boustani — Total articles and responses

October /2022 Stats
Story stats

Views: 6,900
Reads:2,338
Fans:1,201

Nour Boustani — October 2022 story stats
For the first 25 days of the month, I published two daily articles for a total read time of nine minutes. In the first half of the month, I got a nice stable boost for distribution from Medium; however, things started to go down quickly in the second half of the month despite the same effort of writing two articles a day and clapping for 500± people a day.

I asked my friend 
Misbah Sheikh
 to share her stats with me and compare them with my stats, and here is what I found.


Nour Boustani Stats — October

Misbah Sheikh
 Stats — October
Can you find any shared patterns? Focus on the dates around October 4 and 16. I have been publishing more than Misbah and clapping on many more articles to grab attention. Yet we share the same distribution.

Why is that happening, Medium? Hm? Does it mean that our fate is in the hands of your unfair algorithm no matter how hard we work? (Misbah, I value you, and I firmly believe you are a decent writer, but this is only for analysis purposes, and I mean no disrespect) 🥂💞

My point is that more articles and effort don’t equal more distribution or attention. If Medium decides to hide your articles away from the eyes of the readers for some reason, it won’t feel shy or shame to do so.

Tips updates:

I gave $55 tips to nine writers and received $30 from six generous ones. You can see my complete tips report on my Ko-Fi wall.

Audience stats

Followers:3,526
Email subscribers:105
Referred members:4

Nour Boustani — October 2022 audience stats
Earnings stats

Story earnings: $141.97
Referred members’ earnings: $9.08
Total October/2022 revenues: $151.05
Earning growth compared to the previous month

May’s earnings: $13.34
June’s earnings: $172.20
July’s earnings: $215.92
August’s earnings: $130.74
September earnings: $229.34
October earnings: $151.05

Nour’s October Earnings

October Earnings
Double the work, more views and reads, yet, less money 😆 Oh, my Medium! I can see that medium rewards and punishes me every following month. In July, I earned $215; in August, earnings were $130; in September, earnings were $229; in October, they were $151. I expect November should be above $151. Let’s put this idea to the test!

One thing I know for now is that calculating revenue per read time is crap; Medium calculates revenue as it wishes.


Nour’s Monthly Total Reading Time
Two questions for Medium:

Does two hours less reading time results in a $76 decrease in revenue?
Why my reading time is almost flat, close to the previous month, despite my increase in followers and published articles?

Nour’s Daily Total Reading Time
Look at that another joke; twelve minutes in difference leads to a $3.71cut in revenue! Come on, guys. How do you scale your effort if there is no clear way of how Medium pays its writers and distribute its content?

Some people claim they earn $1000 or more a month with a few thousand followers without complete video proof refreshing their browser to show updated earnings; I will take it as a big fat lie and insult to our intelligence. Anyone can fake their graph and stats on Chrome, and here is the proof.


Fake Stats — Nour Boustani
I have edited my previous stats and made them look juicier; I only had to move my cursor on any element, then right-click and choose inspect. Then adjust the value of any element. Don’t be fooled! Here is another image of fake earnings.


Fake Earnings — Nour Boustani
Things I’m sure of:

More views, reads, follows, and read time doesn’t equal more profit.
Writing more articles doesn’t increase your revenue or followers.
Things I’m testing:

I have been posting two articles a day, and I think that effort didn’t pay out; my new strategy will be to post five to six articles a week and stretch my total read time to a maximum of ten minutes without boring the reader. I now believe that long-form writing is more effective and profitable in the long term. I have to put this idea to the test this month.

Please review the articles on this list to improve your writing skills on Medium.

Nour Boustani
Nour Boustani

Medium and Writing Tips
View list
59 stories



September’s Report
For over 146 days, I have been active on Medium. I have published 144 articles, responded with 1664 comments, and gained 3,000 followers while following no one.


Nour Boustani — Total articles and responses

September /2022 Stats
Story stats

Views: 5,529
Reads:1,719
Fans:1,417

Nour Boustani —September 2022 stories stats
This month's average views and reads have almost doubled compared to last month, and there are many reasons for that result.

Many people came back from the summer holidays and started reading on Medium.
I started a new community with daily short articles about Medium and asked writers to add their thoughts. Many people are searching for ways to improve their writing on Medium, and the algorithm pushes these articles more than others.
I had a single article that went viral.
I responded to many more comments on my articles and left many comments on other writers’ articles. Therefore the total reads and views increased.
Don’t be fooled by articles that trick you into increasing your views. You can increase your views quickly by commenting on other writers’ articles.


Total Views and Reads
I suggest you review the short articles I did on Medium and read through the comments, as you would learn much from fellow writers about how to become a better writer on Medium. And I’m tipping the earnings that come from these articles to fantastic writers.

Nour Boustani
Nour Boustani

Medium and Writing Tips
View list
59 stories



My top ten articles by earnings.


My top 10 earning articles

My top 10 earning articles
I kept clapping almost daily for 600 people. For a few days, I couldn’t do any of the clappings for personal reasons, and the results showed in my stats. The bottom line is if you don’t promote yourself, your views and read time will decline.

Tips updates:

I have continued receiving two tips from generous people and one from a generous and extraordinary writer.


Ko-fi — Tips Received

Ko-fi — Tips Received

Ko-fi — Tips Received
I have given tips to five incredible writers.


Ko-fi — Tips Given

Ko-fi — Tips Given

Buy Me Coffee — Tips Given
Tipping excellent writers and supporters is a great way to deepen relationships and create loyalty. I wanted to tip some people. I enjoyed their work but couldn’t find any link to their Ko-Fi account. I urge you to create a new account and make it possible for readers to send you a tip, even if it’s $5.

Audience stats

Followers:2,994
Email subscribers:95
Referred members:5
I have gained Two new referrals; I also gained and lost email subscribers. People come and go all time; on a few days, I might lose two to three email subscribers, and on other days, I might gain three.


Nour Boustani — September 2022 audience stats
Don’t you find it interesting that despite my effort to clap and promote my content, my followers’ growth rate remains almost flat? This idea doesn’t make sense mathematically unless Medium is doing something behind closed doors; maybe they are not showing my claps to some writers and showing it to others.

Earnings stats

Story earnings: $217.99
Referred members’ earnings: $11.35
Total September/2022 revenues: $229.34
Earning growth compared to the previous month

May’s earnings: $13.34
June’s earnings: $172.20
July’s earnings: $215.92
August’s earnings: $130.74
September earnings: $229.34

Nour Boustani — September total earnings
Some say that other writers with the same number of followers earn much more money than me. Here is my answer.

1. Make sure that the writer is being honest and not faking their earnings by photoshopping and pasting fake numbers on top of their screenshots.

I’m going to record my screen, and I demand you to ask other writers politely to record a video as they refresh their browsers and show their earnings.


Nour’s earning stats — September-2022
2. Make sure to ask for their traffic source; as I mentioned at the beginning of this article, I would never ask any of my 100,000 online students or friends to read any of my articles. I’m starting from a fresh new account and building it one step at a time.

I could easily ask plenty of people to join through my affiliate link and read my content, but that wouldn’t be fair to you.

3. Make sure to compare different writers within the same month; medium seems to have ups and downs in earnings for each month. Ask for each writer's total read time and earnings per minute; if the read time is almost the same as other writers, but the earnings differ significantly, then there is a problem with their earnings report.


Nour’s monthly read time
Notice how I got fewer views and read time in September than in June, yet I made $58 more, and the reason for that is that the Medium revenue pool has more money to split over total read time and incentivized me with more money.

You can’t say you can earn a specific amount of money on Medium monthly. What you should look for is growth in earnings, and right now, I’m showing more earnings than in previous months, which is a good sign.

Notes on gaining followers:

Don’t be fooled by the number of followers, as they make no considerable difference in earnings; they only give writers more opportunities to reach readers and strengthen the branding and halo effect around the writer.
Many writers will use the F4F strategy to follow and be followed by many members, then unfollow all people to look more socially powerful. It’s a clever trick, but it’s like dumping the people who followed you for the following in the trash.
You will gain and lose many followers daily, some are bots, and some are people who follow you and expect you to follow them back. Don’t worry about the number of followers; focus on creating decent work, engaging with writers through asking questions in your articles, and promoting your work.
Don’t get impressed by the number of claps or comments; you can probably buy fake comments and claps online with a simple Google search.

Fake claps
When I clicked on the clap icon to find who clapped and went through each member who clapped, I found each had little to no followers and no articles. Got you, bots! 22K claps, and not a single comment makes you wonder!

Notes on my engagement behaviors

I no longer measure followers; my main metrics are earnings and engagements on my articles.
I don’t do any read-for-read or clap-for-clap anymore; I need to collect clean data and see which people are interested in reading my content.
Commenting on other writers’ articles doesn’t mean they will read and comment on my articles. Therefore, I now focus on making more engaging content, asking questions, and bringing the conversation to my articles.
New things I’m trying

I will try to write a bunch of articles and schedule to publish two articles daily every twelve hours instead of a single article a day. My goal is to increase earnings and engagement. I will let you know the results next month.

I told you last month that I would try to promote my Udemy courses and my consulting services on Ko-FI, as many gurus claim you can grab many business opportunities by writing on Medium. One month passed I got some clicks and a couple of emails but no consultation inquiry or purchase for my $10 courses.


Ko-fi Link Clicks
August’s Report
For over 116 days, I have been active on Medium. I have published 104 articles, responded with 1055 comments, and gained 2,361 followers while following no one.


Nour Boustani — Total articles and responses

Nour Boustani — August.2022 — Number of followers
August /2022 Stats
Story stats

Views: 2,931
Reads: 616
Fans:779

Nour Boustani — August 2022 stories stats
Although I have up-leveled my effort compared to the last two months to promote my account, I had fewer views and reads than in June and July. and the reason for that I think August is summer and people are busy traveling.

For the last month, I clapped and highlighted, on average, 850 articles a day for six days a week. My craziest day was clapping for 1852 articles I did on a single day, but it took almost 11 hours to finish.

Nowadays, I got used to clapping; my fingers don’t hurt as before, and it takes less than 20 seconds to clap for an article and highlight a couple of lines.

Let me put you in perspective regarding the big picture; on average, I clap for 25,500 articles of unique members every month. I have been doing this for three months, so I have clapped for 76,500 members. Let me discount my effort by 50% if you call me bluffing; that's 38,250 people.

I only got 2,361 people who followed me back. I want you to see that it takes an enormous effort to grow your account, especially at the beginning stages when the algorithm hasn’t picked up and promoted your account yet.

Some people ask me if it’s ethical to clap without reading.

If it’s about ethics, it’s a tricky question for me because I’m trying to figure out an answer to a technical problem, not an answer to an ethical question. I’m trying to push the growth of an account without breaking the rules of Medium, which are:

1. Performing a disproportionately large number of interactions, particularly by automated means. This includes bulk or indiscriminate interactions, such as following other accounts (follow spam), clapping, highlighting, or leaving notes.

I do things manually; I don’t follow, mass highlight, or spam people’s accounts. I only leave a few claps and sometimes do a highlight for a couple of lines. Bots go crazy and they add extra pressure on servers and Medium needs to get rid them of them ASAP.

2. Repeatedly using responses or other interactions as a method of promotion or marketing.

I don’t promote or market any products or services.

Many people hit the like button on others’ Tweets, Instagram, or YouTube videos to support those they like without going through the details of their content. It benefits the creators and pushes their posts to the surface so people interested in their content can see the post.

In my opinion, if a clap gives a push to your article and at the same time allows the clapper to nudge you, then it’s a win-win. You gotta let go of your ego on social platforms.

Note: on a few days, I enjoyed reading quickly through some decent articles and left detailed comments, and on some days, I kept it entirely mechanical and pushed it to the limit by clapping. I keep an excel sheet of the people I like reading before bedtime.

Tips updates:

For the last two months, I have received three tips from three generous people.


Ko-fi — Tips Received

Ko-fi — Tips Received
I have given tips to five incredible writers.


Ko-fi — Tips Given

Ko-fi — Tips Given

PayPal — Tips Given
Instead of only commenting and engaging with other people’s content, I will tip three different writers monthly for $10 each. I will increase that number as I discover new fantastic writers worth reading.

Most people talk about engaging with other writers but never consider motivating the writer financially, even with a small tip. If you genuinely believe that Medium is a community and writers need to earn a living here, at least pay a little respect and invite them for a cup of coffee.

Audience stats

Followers:2,361
Email subscribers:82
Referred members:3
I have gained one new referral and lost two members; I also gained and lost email subscribers.


Nour Boustani — August 2022 audience stats
Earnings stats

Story earnings: $123.93
Referred members’ earnings: $6.81
Total August/2022 revenues: $130.74

Nour Boustani —August’s total earnings
Earning growth compared to the previous month

May’s earnings: $13.34
June’s earnings: $172.20
July’s earnings: $215.92
August’s earnings: $130.74

Nour Boustani — Total earnings
I know what you are saying. Is it worth it with all that effort? I can’t answer you right now; we have to see the entire year's earnings and how income differs monthly.

Here is what I know for now.

An increase in followers doesn’t mean an increase in income; my followers' growth rate has been similar to my previous months, but my income was much less.

Nour Boustani — Number of followers comparison
More read time doesn't equal more money; in June, I had more read time than in July, yet I made less money. I thought there was an earnings cap related to the number of followers; this month eliminates that idea.

Nour Boustani — Read time comparison
The only hypothesis that I’m finding valid is that our earnings are related to the earnings of Medium from subscribers. If Medium struggles financially, we will struggle. Since Medium takes a portion of the earnings from subscribers and adds it to earning pool, the less money Medium earns and adds to the pool, the less we earn.

Reading time only gives you the potential to earn a more significant share from the pool.

I’m definite that the last period was tough on Medium financially. I suggest that all of us contribute to Medium and become paying members. It’s a win-win for all writers as we make considerable money as a payoff for our effort.

If we get greedy, none of us will make decent money. This is a great chance to promote my affiliate link sign up for a medium membership :P

Here are a few lessons I learned along the way:

Check for notifications on your PC daily; not all notifications are displayed on mobile. I have missed a lot of private notes from publications wanting to publish my articles.
Medium is 90% engaging with others’ content and 10% writing.
Medium is a full-time job
Some people monitor each clap and judge clappers that don’t reflect any read-time as bots. You are wrong! The Medium algorithm doesn’t seem to count every read as complete; some people are fast readers, and others only read a small portion of your genius creation. So don’t judge way too quickly.
I’m not sure about how the algorithm works yet. One hypothesis is that Medium assigns each article an estimated read time, then calculates the total time spent on the article, divides it by the estimated read time, and counts it as total reads at the end of the day or the month.


A screenshot of an article stats

A screenshot of an article
Note: When looking at others’ financial reports and screenshots, make sure that you zoom in and check if they cut made-up numbers from an excel sheet and paste it on top of their earnings. You can see light grey dots behind the numbers. The font is lighter or thinner. Sadly, many people fake it.

New things I’m trying:

Many big shots on Medium promote the idea that the primary income on Medium isn’t writing on Medium but rather selling courses and coaching services. This month I will put this idea to the test. I doubt it will work since I feel most Medium writers and readers are broke, but what do I get to lose?

I have converted my Ko-Fi account into a gold account and added some services. I kept everything simple without all the complexity of marketing tools so everyone else could follow if things worked out.

I added the following sentence at the end of each article.

Note: Some of you sent me emails asking how to work with me. You can work with me by clicking here, and you can take my on-demand online courses by clicking here.

Let’s put the gurus of Medium to the test.

I have written a new article on becoming a better writer as a professional and expert on Medium. Check it out:

The Experts Guide to Effective and Profitable Writing on Medium
Experts and professionals, welcome to Medium! A virtual space where you can express your creativity and impact…
nourboustani.medium.com

I would appreciate any feedback and insights on the performance and earnings of your Medium account.

July's Report
For over 85 days, I have been active on Medium. I have published 79 articles, responded with 844 comments, and gained 1701 followers while following no one.


Nour Boustani — Total articles and responses

Nour Boustani — 31. July.2022 — number of Followers
July/2022 Stats
Story stats

Views: 4,246
Reads: 1,048
Fans:1,265

Nour Boustani — July 2022 stories stats
Although I have doubled my effort compared to last month to promote my account, I had fewer views and reads than July's effort, and the reason for that, I think it's because probably one of my articles went viral in June.


Nour Boustani — June 2022 stories stats
For the last month, I clapped and highlighted, on average, 700 articles a day for 7 days a week. On average, on weekdays, I get 30 to 50 new followers, and on weekends, around 10 to 15 followers a day. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday are the toughest regarding reading counts and gaining new followers.

The category of the list of the people I clapped for affected my number of followers. People into writing, art, business, and creativity check my account and follow me back more than developers and programmers.

I could get more followers if I follow people, but I'm looking for followers who follow me for the quality of my content, not because I followed them and they feel obligated to follow me back.

If I have followers who don't read my content, it might signal to the algorithm that my content isn't engaging and might hurt my reach in the future.

I have no article distributed through publications for this month.

Audience stats

Followers:1,701
Email subscribers:66
Referred members:4
I have gained 2 new referrals and lost 3 members; I also gained and lost email subscribers. It seems like people subscribe to Medium membership for a single month rather than pay for the entire year.


Nour Boustani — July 2022 audience stats
Earnings stats

Story earnings: $205.92
Referred members' earnings: $9.08
Total July's/2022 revenues: $215.00

Nour Boustani — July's total earnings
Earning growth compared to the previous month

May's earnings: $13.34
June's earnings: $172.20
July's earnings: $215.92

Nour Boustani — Total earnings
It's disappointing to get these numbers as I put on Medium for a minimum of 5 to 7 hours a day for 7 days a week. However, I believe an income cap relies on the number of followers or the duration of your membership exists.

The longer you write on Medium and gain more followers, the more your income cap will increase. That's only speculation; I need more data to verify it.

Most active writers with three months on Medium and under 2000 followers seem to make between $200 and $300.

Medium pays by reading time. However, the $/minutes differ from one day to another.


Nour Boustani — July's 2022 Daily-earnings breakdown — the Medium earning info chrome extension
I'm guessing Medium distributes revenue to writers daily; if on the 1st of the month 100K subscribers renew their subscriptions, then Medium would probably take 30% to 50% of that money and divide it by the total read time and distribute it to writers. And that amount of revenue will differ on other days of the month.

The second factor might be the traffic source, the niche category, or the type of readers, whether premium or free members.

Here are a few lessons I learned along the way:

One thousand words articles that are around 5 minutes of reading time perform best. Longer articles get people bored; shorter articles don't earn enough money.
Mindset articles perform much better in engagement and gaining followers than articles around techniques.
Leveraging Ko-Fi for collecting tips isn't very effective; over the last month, I have received only $5 from a very kind person.
Start a Twitter account and share two articles daily with the proper formatting and hashtags. This tactic will allow members to mention you on Twitter and get external traffic to your articles. Here is mine

P.S. Mention at the end of your article that you have a Twitter account and ask people to connect with you.
A quick note: I'm finally on Twitter; connect with me for the latest articles and updates.
Most people give up after a few months or never put effort into promoting their accounts. The people who go the extra mile and are persistent make the most money. Therefore Medium is a game of consistency for an extended period.
June's Report
I'm going to share with you and be transparent about my monthly earnings on Medium and ongoing notes and tactics I find along the way to improve my profits on this fantastic platform.

Medium is a part of a larger project I'm working on to find different methods for professionals struggling to make a decent earning while helping others.

As a business teacher of 100,000 online students, I must teach from experience; I don't make things up or follow and copy others' vague directions.

My challenge is to find a way to build a minimum of five figures side income on a single writing platform within six months to one year.

Here are the rules I gave myself:

No use of personal brand or invite any of my 100,000 online students or clients.
No use of dirty marketing tactics such as fake bots.
No writing about misleading topics or selling dreams.
No spending money on hiring freelance writers.
No AI writing tool.
No spamming.
Start from a clean account with no previous relationships and build my way up with as little money as possible.

In this article, I will use data and screenshots to conclude how to make money on Medium.

For over 54 days, I have been active on Medium. I have published 52 articles, responded with 477 comments, and gained 984 followers while following no one (I will tell you why later).


Nour Boustani — Total articles and responses

Nour Boustani — 30. June.2022 — number of Followers
June/2022 Stats
Story stats

Views: 6,848
Reads: 1,716
Fans:1,413

Nour Boustani — June 2022 stories stats
Three publications asked me to publish my stories on their feed, which I did. I don't think they drove a lot of traffic, but they are suitable for fast indexing my content on Google. I never submitted or pitched my stories to any publications.


Nour Boustani — Publication request
Here are the three articles:

From -$20K to $90M in 5 Years, How to Build a Massive Cash Cow Business
The Power of Intense Focus — How I Achieve More Doing Less
Why You Won't Reach Financial Independent
Audience stats

Followers:821
Email subscribers:50
Referred members:5

Nour Boustani — June 2022 audience stats
Earnings stats

Story earnings: $160.85
Referred members' earnings: $11.35
Total June's/2022 revenues: $172.20

Nour Boustani — June's total earnings
I put $5 in and got $167.2 out. Not bad!

Earning growth compared to the previous month

May's earnings: $13.34
June's earnings: $172.20

Nour Boustani — Total earnings
Total reading time and average earnings per minute

Full read time: 84 hours/5,040 minutes

Average earning per minute: ¢3.182/minute


Nour Boustani — June's 2022 total read time — the Medium earning info chrome extension
Daily-earnings breakdown for the last seven days


Nour Boustani — June's 2022 Daily-earnings breakdown — the Medium earning info chrome extension
How to make money on Medium
Okay, now it's time to talk about insights and what I have learned from Medium.

The following ideas present my thoughts and studies; they are only speculations. I have no access to the Medium database or a friend who works for Medium.

Grow Your MEDIUM Account Challenge — Dare to Scale + Tips on How to Make More Money
Today, I'm going to shift your mindset about approaching social platforms and teach you the basics of adopting a growth…
nourboustani.medium.com

1. Medium is a legit source of income
First, I have to demystify the idea that creators can't make money on Medium; Medium is a legit business that makes, according to similarweb.com, estimated annual revenue of $25M to $50M.


Similarweb — Medium.com
Assume that they use the same revenue sharing rate as Skillshare, which is 30%, then there is, on average, $8.3M to $16.6M annually distributed to creators on Medium. I'm not sure; I'm only guessing!

So let's get rid of the idea that you can't make money on Medium, and by the way, I don't work with or sponsor Medium; it's a pure fact that you can check yourself.

2. Medium only rewards reading time and referrals
Medium rewards for reading time mention nothing related to the number of followers or articles. This point means longer articles with engaging style and stories are where you should spend your effort.

Medium mentioned it clearly on their help center page.

we will calculate earnings based on three components:

1. How long do members spend reading your story.

2. How much of their monthly reading time do members spend on your story.

3. How many Medium members you’ve referred.

Here is the full article: check it out.

You need a medium membership account; it's $5 a month or $50 a year; without this, you only have access to viewing and clapping for three articles a month.

That's tough and slow to grow your subscribers list fast and earn money immediately.

If you don't have a medium membership, get one now with my affiliate link here.

Join Medium with my referral link - Nour Boustani
Read every story from Nour Boustani (and thousands of other writers on Medium). Your membership fee directly supports…
nourboustani.medium.com

3. Follow to follow tactic isn't effective in the long run
Following other people for following back is a strategy doomed to failure in the long run; it positions you as a desperate instead of authority.

Visit Barack Obama or accounts of some big shots on Medium; they follow very few people.

In my case, I wanted to keep my notification only for people's comments so I could see them easily and respond to them fast; I have a separate sheet with the people I want to follow.

You want people to follow you because they find value in your content, not because you followed them, and they feel obligated to return the favor; more followers make you feel good, but if those followers don't read your content, you gain no extra earnings.

4. Claps and highlights don't increase earnings
Claps and highlights hardly influence earnings directly; I didn't notice an increase in revenues associated with an increase in claps.

I believe this tactic is suitable for building prestige around your brand. I also think that getting comments and clapping helps your article get more engagement, and the more attention you get on your post, the more the algorithm will suggest your article to strangers.

It's also a brilliant strategy to knock on other people's doors and let them check you out. It's a growth strategy to increase your new subscribers.

5. The number of articles is irrelative to your earnings
Many writers brag about the number of articles they wrote but have little income because they didn't follow the Medium formula. Longer and more engaging content makes you more money, period!

6. Medium is a part-time job, not a side hobby
To succeed on Medium, take it seriously as a business or a part-time job rather than a hobby. On average, expect five hours a day of investment in writing and editing content, plus growing your account.

7. Email subscribers are the lifeblood of your earnings
Focus on adding more subscribers to your mailing list than worrying about gaining followers. Subscribers are readers, and readers give you a greater chance to earn more reading time and money than followers or clappers who only skim and scroll articles.

Love reading these tips? Subscribe to get my practical stories and insights delivered straight to your inbox. Click here to join my list!

Get an email whenever Nour Boustani publishes.
Get an email whenever Nour Boustani publishes. By signing up, you will create a Medium account if you don't already…
nourboustani.medium.com

The benefits of publishing on Medium
Despite the monthly money, it's a great platform to build a personal and authoritative brand around specific expertise and drive traffic to a free coaching strategy session or a free e-book or course, which you can up-sell to a paid product or offer.

Key points to focus on for making money on Medium
To make more money on Medium, optimize your effort into four things:

Write longer format and engaging articles.
Focus on optimizing your articles for email subscriptions.
Grow your audience by clapping and highlighting non-followers articles.
Comment and reply to every response to your article to increase the engagement rate and brand loyalty.
My only concern is that Medium might be like other platforms and set a cap on earnings or reach they pre-programmed into their algorithm for average distribution.

I already noticed a U-shaped distribution pattern, which might be a concern. Not enough data yet; we shall see.

If you like making money on Medium, take immediate action. I have shown you through data that it's possible.

Your first step is to sign up for medium membership. If you haven't already, subscribe here with my affiliate link; I believe I have already earned the right for your trust and money.

JoinMediumm with my referral link - Nour Boustani
Read every story from Nour Boustani (and thousands of other writers onMediumm). Your membership fee directly supports…
nourboustani.medium.com

I will pin this article and update you with future earnings and lessons.

That's all