The 2 Articles That Pushed My Medium Earnings to $5,000
They went viral for different reasons

Photo by Tai’s Captures on Unsplash
Recently, I crossed the $5,000 mark on Medium and just two articles were largely responsible. They both went viral a few days from each other. The first article became viral without any conscious effort. The second article required some conscious effort. Here is the breakdown.

The Unspoken Viral Principle
The stats page of most consistent writers is very similar. If you look at just the bar chart for stats, they tell a very interesting story. There is usually one or two (mostly two) notable upward shoots in 30 days.

The stats bar gradually drops over the next few days after the viral day. But the viral day is often sudden. But in the end, the stats bar goes back to the normal daily level. In some cases, they rest at a new normal.

This has happened in my case over several months and it is almost like a principle. Other writers kind enough to share their stats chart show the same thing.

Going viral is relative, but it seems like two viral days in 30 days is a principle.

Or is it? Most writers like to credit themselves with the genius of going viral. But it has very little to do with marketing genius. Yes, marketing plays a part, but it is not what you think.

There is only one thing you can control. And that is the frequency of your writing. All the top writers advise it all the time. And even this platform admits it in the very first email notification you got when you published your first members-only article. They want you to write more. They will reward you for writing more.

Another Native Hint
A few weeks back, another clue came. There was a questionnaire that came flying around. It wasn’t really a questionnaire, it was a clue. They were trying to say something. And the message was as clear as the daylight:

Stay in your niche.

That can be hard for most people. If you don’t understand those two, you won’t understand how to make $5,000 in a month. It just comes when everything comes together. You only decide what your writing discipline will be.

Viral articles are a product of consistent work over a significant period. The exact duration of that significant period may be very relative. They may be different for each person depending on several factors.

The Secret of the First Article
The first viral article was nothing special. I have tried to narrow down what is special so that I can duplicate it but none produced the same effect. It is not my best work by a long shot. In fact, I think it to be average.

I have written longer articles, better titles, better subtitles, stronger appeals, and so on. The viral article just keeps getting more viral while the other ones stay ordinary. Why? The only reasonable explanation was the two days in 30 days viral principle.

The viral secret of the first title is a reward for consistency.

An article cannot go viral if it is not seen. And by the way, the read ratio of the viral article wasn’t special too. There are articles with better read ratios that stayed ordinary.

You cannot really tell which of your articles will go viral in this regard. You can only pour out your best into everything you write. And when one goes viral, a good percentage of the readers who love your work will read something else that you have written.

The Secret of the Second Article
The second viral article came by surprise. The actions were not things I thought would create a viral effect. It was just something that came as a result of trying something new. Let me give you the story.

So, I wrote this beautiful article and published it. When I looked back at it, I loved it. The article was curated under a topic that is not so popular. After a few days, I read the article again and thought, “this ought to be a viral article.”

I had published a few articles after it and the stat seemed to have run its course. It had just about 500 views and the daily addition wasn’t significant anymore. But I did something.

I went on LinkedIn and shared it. I just added three lines of a casual note and added a few hashtags. It wasn’t anything special. It was an effort to boost the visibility. And then it started happening.

At first, I noticed an unusual amount of notification on LinkedIn. I responded as best as I could, then I went to check the traction of the post. Then I saw 40K views. What?

That is even not the most amazing part. The most amazing part was that the article was shared by someone else that I don’t even know. And his post got better traction than mine. And this point, I knew the article had to be going viral on Medium. I checked and it was.

It was even more viral than the first article. But the difference wasn’t that much.

I have tried to duplicate the LinkedIn effect but I haven’t gotten anything remotely close to that viral effect. So the lesson is not about bombarding LinkedIn with your articles. Instead, the secret is this:

Write an article that someone you don’t know can gladly share.

That does the magic to a large extent. Someone contacted a few months back about one of my first viral articles in 2020. He said it has been translated into three languages around the Russian region. That felt cool.

The Result
Those two articles took my monthly earnings over $5,000 for the first time. And that constitutes another vital point:

5% of your articles will produce 95% of your earnings.

Those two secrets are the greatest marketing secrets discovered to work best on this platform.

Conclusion
In summary, the two big marketing secrets discovered are:

Write consistently (and stay in your niche)
Write something worth sharing by someone you don’t know (and doesn’t know you)
This is not to make light of other marketing strategies. But they are just powerful game-changers.

Thank you for reading to the end. I hope you have learned something.

