My First Three Months On Medium Earned $2,600+
A little celebration is in order.

Photo by maude on Reshot
When I hopped on Medium at the end of April, it was with the intention to make up for lost income. I’ve written about it a lot--how I’m a single mom who works from home, and how I’m trying to get away from freelancing to make a living writing about whatever I choose.

The problem with wanting to write your own stuff full-time--as opposed to writing as a freelancer--is that most of us don’t have the luxury to write for hours everyday and not get paid. I am in one of those positions where I have to make enough money each month or my daughter and I will be homeless.

Medium seemed like the easiest option to attempt to earn a living writing whatever I wanted. So my goal has always been to make money here. I don’t mean to be tacky to talk about money, but I aim to be honest. I feel a little embarrassed every time I talk about money on Medium because I’m so used to hearing that I shouldn’t be writing for the money. But I disagree. Writers shouldn’t feel bad that we need to make money... like anyone else. We all need to earn a living.

So last night when the latest earnings posted with the Medium Partner Program, I was overjoyed to see I made $1416.26--more than enough to cover my rent and utilities. More than what my freelancing gig is currently giving me. It’s a gigantic milestone because my first big goal here is to pay my rent and utilities through my Medium earnings.


Over the past three months, I’ve accrued TONS of stories, so here’s a snapshot of my recent dashboard. Some of the better paying stories are old, but they picked up new traction this past month:


Be proud of your progress.
In three months, I’ve had two featured stories, gained 1.4K followers, and achieved top writer status in nine areas. I just found out that Medium made an audio of my latest feature story. I’ve worked myself up to publishing at least twice a day, and that consistency is a huge reason why this endeavor is working for me. I know I still have a long way to go, but I’m happy to have this single part of my life feel like a success. It feels good to work so hard for something and see it panning out.

Believe in your own voice.
I came here with a pretty good idea about the topics I wanted to cover and I’ve told myself from day one that my voice matters. You might not like my work at all--but that’s okay. My goal is to build a loyal audience of people who do find my work helpful and go out of their way to read and applaud most days of the week.

Don't be selfish here.
John Gorman
 and 
Michael Thompson
 have both been really great about giving shoutouts to other writers. Jonathan Greene has written about how you’ve got to take part in the community here. 
Tom Kuegler
 has been especially supportive of me on Twitter. 
Jessica Wildfire
 and 
Erika Sauter
 are both really good at reading and supporting newbies. Personally, I’ve found a feeling of camaraderie with writers like 
Sam McKenzie Jr.
, 
Jack Preston King
, 
Emily Kate
, 
Deb Knobelman, PhD
 and 
Jodi Tandet
. And 
Iva Ursano
 recently caught my attention when she tagged me in a story of her own.

Each one of these names stick with me not only because they write regularly and have great voices, but also because they are not selfish about sharing credit and investing in the community.

If you want to be successful on Medium, you have to care about the success of others too. From the beginning, I’ve always been generous with my applause and give out more 40 and 50 claps. It costs me nothing to be generous with clapping, yet it can make another writer’s day. Little things like that matter.

Do what you love.
How was I able to write 60+ stories last month? It’s because I love to write, plus my freelance job is now part time. And I love to write about mental health and other topics close to my heart. Sure, I understand that I have a ways to go before I can slow down on the quantity. I’m okay with that because I’m still building an audience around the issues that mean everything to me.

If you want to write for a living, plenty of people are going to tell you that it’s impossible. But you have to work past that negativity.

Don’t give up.
Since I battle depression, I sometimes find myself feeling more depressed with any little bit of success. I get scared that I won’t be able to keep it up. And I don’t know if the next check will cover my rent. It’s scary, but I didn’t know when I first signed up whether or not I’d make any money at all. The only way I’ll know now is if I try. And now that I’ve had some measure of success, I have to keep going.

Putting it all together...
How can my success help you? I hope it can give you a realistic idea of how much work it takes to get anywhere with writing on Medium when you’re an unknown writer beginning from zero.

As far as strategies go, I’m pretty basic. My CTAs are simply links to other stories I’ve written. I write in seven publications. I publish A LOT. I read a lot and applaud too. I put in at least a couple hours everyday in hopes that a loyal audience will grow.

I don’t have any secrets--I still count my wins here on Medium as a combination of luck and plenty of work. But I’m convinced that Medium can work for you too!