How My Medium Earnings Went From $428.84 to $2,372.33 in 1 Month
Lessons and hypotheses

Proof from my email
It took two years. It took three months. It took one anchor decision. It took many small decisions.

The turning point for me came in October 2019 when Medium changed its rules. Before then, payment was by claps. I believed I had to have a huge following to get a good number of claps that can deliver a reasonable income.

That wasn’t really true. But it was at the back of my mind. I couldn’t shake it off. I would publish a few times a week and hope it’d work. The payment stat was done weekly. I’d always look forward to checking how the few articles performed after a week before thinking of something else to write.

I didn’t experiment much. I just wrote what I wanted and hoped people liked it. I didn’t think much of my Medium earnings. In fact, I gave most of the money away or spent it on something trivial.

But in October 2019, Medium said payment would now be calculated by reads. And the payment stat will be updated every day. I saw an opportunity.

That was the moment I actually saw that I could focus on this platform and make a lot of money. The focus began in November 2019. And in January 2020, I have more than ten times what I earned in October 2019.

I started writing on Medium in January 2018. So, it has been a two-year journey thus far. But the core focus began three months ago.

This article will likely be the last set of tips I’ll share about writing on Medium. I’ve shared a lot already. I have a publication called Writing Guides filled with insights about writing on Medium. But I’m getting to the point where all I have left is my personalized tips. I may still share if I notice something new, but I doubt it.

I know there are different articles giving insights on how to write on Medium. Most of them are good advice. But you must know what applies to you and what doesn’t. All that depends on what your goals are.

My goal was to hit four figures in payment. And it wasn’t really about the money. I view this as a kind of game.

In fact, my goal for the year 2020 was to hit 100K views in 30 days. And I achieved that a few days into February. Now I have to set a bigger goal. My current goal is to reach 15K views per day.

I won’t lie to you by saying that I know exactly how I got to $2K in payments. I have my guesses. But because I have been able to replicate the success in some of my other articles since, I feel confident to write these tips.

These tips are not rules set in stone. They are assumptions that I tested and got good results from.

1. The Tone in Your Title Matters
I know you may not have seen this coming. But from my tests, a positive and cheerful tone in the title performs way better than a negative tone.

Even when you want to share something that should be avoided, try to convey it in a positive tone. Words trigger emotions. And decisions are made by emotions, not logic.

Don’t appeal to logic in titles. An appeal to happy emotions is better.

Pictures matter too. If you’re writing about a love affair gone sour, it’s better to use “happy couple” pictures. And of course, try to give it a happy ending.

Emotions matter. This realization changed my entire approach. I also discovered that many Medium writers don’t pay attention to it.

There are cases where a negative or neutral tone does magic. But generally, a positive tone works best. If the title doesn’t sound uplifting, it’s not positive enough.

2. Write What People Want to Read
This is too important. Around mid-2019, there was a month I published over 30 articles. And I didn’t earn up to $40. Why? Nobody cared about what I was writing.

In January 2020, the same month I earned over $2K, only 8% of writers earned over $100. I believe one of the reasons is that people are too focused on writing what they like.

It was a tough lesson I had to learn. It’s not about what I want to write, instead, it’s about what people want to read.

This is not about changing your genre to write something you really don’t care about. No. This is about letting the readers guide you to provide them with the best version of what you care about and what they want to read.

The way to achieve this is to keep trying different kinds of content. Write your best on what people want to read. You know what people want to read by what they’re reading. Check your stats to know what they’re reading from you.

3. Sadly, I Wasn’t Serious About Promotion
I was never serious about promoting my articles. I’m still not serious about it. I haven't really figured that part out.

I’ve read all kinds of articles about promoting articles and none seem to click with me at the moment. So, I achieved $2K without any self-promotion effort.

Someone said great content is the best promotion. I think I agree. I had someone connect with me on LinkedIn to thank me for my Medium post. He said a particular post of mine has been translated into three languages. I had no idea.

I think other people promoting your work is the best. But I don’t have any structure for that. The views on my articles are mostly internal views. Constantly over 55%. I believe the Medium algorithm rewards great content.

4. I Still Have Over 100 Articles Earning Zero Every Month
I don’t mean comments. Comments don’t earn money according to the rules. I mean real articles. I have a lot of them. They earn $0.

There is also another bunch that earns less than $1. Together those two groups make up about 80% of my total articles. I’m only hoping to reduce it to about 60% in the coming weeks.

So, if you have a couple of articles that are like that, it doesn’t mean you’re a failure. In January 2020, one article was responsible for over $1,000 of the total amount. I called it the jackpot article. You only need one or two of them and you’re into four figures in earnings.

5. I Almost Didn’t Publish My Best Performing Article
I had the drawn-out skeletal structure for the article for months. I just ignored it. I was checking my idea archive and I came across it. So, I decided to give it a shot.

I didn’t expect anything special from it. In fact, I was concerned that the publication editors might reject it. But you never know until you try. So, I tried.

It got published and at first, it looked like the usual. I started to notice that it was special after about a week.

Mostly articles do well when they are first published. Then, the stats gradually drop over time. This was different. The stats kept climbing.

Honestly, I didn’t know what I was doing right. The truth is that I wasn’t doing anything.

The article stat kept going stronger every day. And on a particular day, it took my daily views close to 15k (almost ten times the usual daily target). The funny thing was that the traffic was internal and it was a Friday.

Traditionally, Friday is not one of the high days on Medium. The article was not new. And readers weren’t coming from an external source. It was internal traffic.

My guess was that the Medium algorithm decided to smile on me that day.

P.S. Algorithm if you are reading this, please smile on me more ☺

6. There Are Trigger Words for Titles
There are trigger words for titles. Of course, what works for me will not work for you. But you need to test and find your own trigger words.

Trigger words are words you use in your titles that more readers respond to. The combination of trigger words and tone makes a lot of difference.

You’d need to test over several articles the words that your readers respond to best. Is this an attempt to get clickbaity? No. Let me explain.

You should think about the title first before you write the article. You may have what you want to write. But you shouldn’t write it until you’ve found the right title for it. This is because you have to deliver on the title.

So, think first and do all the tricks you will on the title first. When you have settled with the title that sounds best (after crafting the skeleton of the content), then you design the article to deliver on the title.

It is not clickbait if your content lives up to the expectations.

7. Do More of What Works
When you discover that something works, do more of it. Try other variants of it just to be sure you know why it worked. You may not know exactly, but you’d have an idea.

Pack your content with quality information. Before I write an article, I spend time writing out all the facts and points I want to pack into it.

Sometimes the list is quite long. And that is my secret for long articles. Naturally, I love short and straightforward. I can write some of those 13-minute articles as 3-minute reads. But this platform favors longer posts.

Don’t be too smart for yourself. Don’t start looking for the next challenge after you’ve had a post that performed really well. Learn from what worked and try to replicate the success. Try to reach the same category of readers that loved your best article thus far.

If it performed well, do it again.

Conclusion
Nothing replaces hard work. I write at least one article per day, including weekends. You need to be committed to the craft to make it work well.

There isn’t much generic advice left for me to share about using this platform. The specific ones are things you need to get on your own. In fact, if you’ve read everything I have to say about this platform, you have too much information.

I got really serious with a simple piece of advice from 
Niklas Göke
. He told me that the big secret is consistency; showing up every week (with good content, of course) for years. That was when I began playing the long game.

Now, I’m confident in saying that I’m in this for the long term. And I’ll definitely get better at this craft. Will you?

I hope you do something with this information

A Final Tip
Before I go, there is another thing I noticed. It really doesn’t matter when you publish your work. The day of the week doesn’t really matter. The time of the day doesn’t really matter.

In the end, quality articles always find their readers. Give your article a week before you conclude about the success of the article. Signs of success can show in less than 24 hours. But don’t call it a poor-performing article until after a week.

I used to think weekdays were the best. And my stats on the weekend still don’t rival weekdays, but some articles published on a weekend have gone ahead to perform exceptionally when the week begins.

This is why I think the day or time you publish doesn’t really matter.

Ciao!