Medium earnings from writing 12 stories in a month
Medium August earning.
how much I have earned from writing 12 stories in a month at Medium.
Photo by Bench Accounting on Unsplash
It is never too late to share the progress. I wanted to share my August earnings from Medium, but failed to do so because of the laptop issue. So, today I am going to share how much I have earned from writing 12 stories in a month at Medium.

From the previous month, I decided to share my monthly medium earnings with writers. The purpose of sharing the earnings is to motivate medium writers who feel themselves losing.

I am here for several months and have seen many writers joining and leaving this platform. The reason is their false perspective about Medium.

New writers fall into the pit of catching the title created by Medium senior writers and think they earn this amount within a few months of writing at medium. When they feel everything went wrong, they just left the platform without knowing the potentiality of the Medium.

I know that earning is not so easy as the new writers think, but you can earn as much as you want via online earning platforms. The thing is — you should know about the tips and tricks of earning online.

My experience of earning at Medium remains not so good, still, I am at Medium because I love writing and sharing my stuff. I am satisfied to earn a few dollars via Medium because I know how I treat Medium.

In the previous month, I have written a total of 12 stories, including poems. I have only two stories that are 3 minutes long. The rest are stories of 1 and 2 minutes read.

Let me share the list of stories I have written the previous month.
Two stories are medium-orientated, such as.
Tipping: A New Way to Get Money on Medium, and Medium July Earning.

Two stories are on education and are curated ones. These are the Role of education in the growth of an individual, and the Role of Institutions in the Development of Children.

Threes stories are about the research topic such as impacts of climate change on wildlife, Adverse Effects of Climate Change on the Production of Honey?, and Is serotonin linked with depression.

Three stories are just general like, How do I write?, A Bad Initiative of the Month, and The Article on Depression Made Me Depressed.

I also have written two poems which went so well. These are
A poem about poets, and I Want To Meet You. These poems earned more than my other Medium stories.

From writing 12 stories in a month at Medium, I managed to earn 20.44 dollars, which is pretty good for me.
What I give to Medium, is returns.

I also tried the 30 days challenge, and what I got is shared in the story linked below.

My 30-Day Writing Challenge Taught me 10 Lessons.
30 Days of Writing Challenge: What I’ve Learned
medium.com

After this, I start experimenting with different things like reading other fellow writers, commenting, and highlighting their stories. It is the best way to grow your medium account organically.

If you are a really new writer, try to read fellow writers. Get to know how they write and how they are progressing at medium. Once you know about the secrets of medium success, you will enjoy earning at Medium.

Keep going on.
Do not leave this medium platform within a few months.

Thank You for your time.