How I Increased Medium Earnings from $3 to Over $3K in 3 Months
Follow my proven strategy to earn more money on Medium
If you are writing on Medium, you must be curious (at least), and you want to know how to make money here. Many authors reported declining earnings, but my experience is the opposite.

I have researched, applied, and tested some ways to find a formula that works. I went from $3 to $ 3,398.52 per month in three months.

It has been a fascinating journey, and I became a top writer in Entrepreneurship and Productivity. Not all topics are eligible for becoming a top writer, and you can find out how to become one in an easy 3 step formula here.

My adventure on Medium began on August 2021, but I started to publish regularly only at the very end of June this year. I have been publishing stories every day since June 28th. And during that period, I consistently multiplied my Medium earnings by following the strategy I will describe.

So if you want to make money on Medium and are eligible for the Partner Program, keep reading.


Image by the author using Canva
1. Prepare the "bank" of articles for emergencies
Earning money by writing on Medium (like any online business) will not happen overnight. So if you want to be successful here, prepare for a marathon, not a sprint. But every victory requires careful preparation.

Therefore you need to write at least 15–30 articles (the more, the better) and keep them as drafts before you publish them daily. This way, you will avoid unnecessary stress when you can not write. It also gives you more time for editing.

Although I strongly believe in daily writing, there will be days when you can not write. You can get sick, have guests or unexpected visits, your child may get ill, or your beloved pet may need more attention than ever. Unfortunately, many things can go wrong, and you must be ready.

Prepare yourself for everyday publishing. And if you can not write daily for whatever reason, you'll be able to publish every day when you prepare the "bank" of articles. Stick to it! No matter what.

2. Publish daily
Consistency is crucial for your Medium success, especially when you are a beginner with few followers (less than 1 K). Many top writers publish daily, and they emphasize the importance of regular publishing.

Quality is more important than quantity, but when you begin writing, do it daily. Writing every day will allow you to practice. Consistency beats greatness. By writing daily, you will improve your skills. Nobody is born a great writer; you can learn and develop skills by practicing (and learning from the masters).

Your consistency and determination will be reflected in your Medium earnings. I started to publish regularly by the very end of June this year. As a result, I earned $113.68 in July. More data and details about my July earnings are here.

I increased my earnings in August to $ 536.97 by following the rules I am writing about. I go into more details about August income here.

In September, I earned $ 3,398.52 ( including $12 from tips) using the same principles.


A screenshot by the author showing the September earnings
3. Nail your headlines
Headlines determine whether any individual will read your piece of content or not. The headline is a deciding factor in 80–90 % of your content intake. You can create a brilliant article; however, without a clickable headline, it's miles wasted. Therefore make your headline worth attempting to your readers.

To create an exciting headline, use the following principles:

Use numbers to give substantial takeaways
Use emotional adjectives to describe your reader's problem (examples: effortless, fun, free, incredible, essential, absolute, strange)
Use unique reasons to demonstrate what the reader will get out of the article
Use trigger words ( what, why, how, or when)
Make a bold promise (and deliver - there is nothing worse than disappointing your readers)
4. Grow the number of fans
The number of fans on Medium is significant. And I will explain to you why. Medium does not define fans, but it means the number of readers who liked (clapped) your story.

Medium business model is based on interactions. So when readers like your content and react to your story by clapping, your story is differently distributed.

Every time you collect a certain number of fans, you will receive an email notification. The following number of fans is important:

10
50
100
500
1000
All those numbers matter as they will help you distribute your story.

When you reach any of these numbers of fans, it is a big deal because:

It triggers the algorithm
The platform knows that the story is relevant
The more claps your article gets, the more it will be displayed and shown in the feeds
Medium is a platform for readers. If you want to make money from Partner Program, you must provide value for your audience.


Screenshot by the author showing an email notification about another milestone in the number of fans.
There are other ways of monetization on Medium outside the Partner Program, but this is not the subject of this article.

5. Submit stories to pubs
There are many publications (pubs) on Medium. Some are more popular, and some are less. But everyone can find an interesting one, depending on their niche or interest.

I strongly encourage everyone, including beginners, to submit their stories to pubs. It will give you a different reach, which you would never be able to achieve ( especially with a little following).

All of my most popular stories were submitted to pubs. Automatically they gained a substantial number of fans, were distributed differently, and earned the most money.

To get published, follow Medium and specific pub guidelines.

Some beginners may be intimidated, but you must go through it if you are serious about writing. Even if you get rejected, it is a lesson. Take it as an opportunity to improve your writing. There are specific pubs for beginning writers.

Getting published by pubs has many benefits:

More exposure to the platform
A larger number of people see your story
More people can become your fans and interact with you
It gives more networking opportunities even outside Medium
Easier to increase the number of your followers
6. Use tags efficiently
Tags represent the relevant topic to your story. It helps both readers and curators to identify and distribute your story accordingly.

Using tags has many benefits:

Let readers know what your story is about
Optimize your story
Get more exposure on the platform
More views, reads, and fans
Get discovered on Medium
Boost your online presence
Expand your network and collaboration opportunities
Increase your earnings
You are allowed to use up to five tags. To use them effectively, mix popular tags with the less popular does.

Why should you use less popular tags?

To avoid competition
The tags allow you to reach precisely your target audience
People using specific tags will find your stories
For the best results, use two or three popular tags and two or three less popular ones.


Screenshot by the author showing the combination of tags
Only the first tag is displayed on your Medium story. Be careful when choosing the tag, as the first one is the most important.

7. Interact with writers and your audience
Medium is much more than just a writing platform. It is a unique community of individuals from the entire planet. To increase your earnings with the Partner Program, you must interact with other writers and your audience:

Read stories
Clap, highlight and make valuable comments
Reply to the comments
Respond even to unpleasant comments. Thank for the feedback, and do not get involved emotionally
Follow your favourite writers
8. Create and share a list of your stories
Depending on your niche, create a list of similar topics. Shortly describe the list to inform your audience what the list is about. If you are unsure, look at how some top writers do it.

Once you create a list, you can share them (using the link) under the story of the relevant topic. You can share more than one list, depending on the subject.


Screenshot by the author showing the display of the lists
That will help you:

To deliver more stories to your audience
Increase the number of reads and fans
Boost the distribution of your stories and earnings
Improve collaboration opportunities on Medium and outside the platform
9. Metrics to watch
Medium provides you with the most important data:

Views (the number of views per day)
Reads (the number of reads per day)
Fans (the number of readers who clapped to your stories per day)
Audience stats. These data give you a great insight into what is happening on a daily and monthly basis
Daily and monthly growth in the number of followers, email subscribers, and referred members
Story stats gives you a detailed insight into every single story
Thanks to the data mentioned above, you can analyze it and make adjustments and improvements. Focus on what works and make necessary changes to meet your financial goals.


Screenshot by the author showing primary stats
Do not get obsessed with the Medium metrics, though. Focus on quality writing and interacting with your audience. Remember that the Medium business model is based on interactions. With the Partner Program, you get paid based on interactions and providing value to paid members.

10. Grow your audience
There is a positive correlation between the number of followers and earnings. The more people clap to your stories, the more people follow you.

You can still make money on Medium without a massive following, but you will see the difference when you gain at least 1–2 K followers.

You can grow your audience effectively utilizing the following methods:

Write and publish consistently
Know your audience
Provide value
Put your audience first
Know their problems and pains
Help solve their problems
Interact with your fans and audience
11. Utilize all three methods of making money on Medium
Medium enables you three different ways of earning money on the platform.

Join the Partner Program and get paid based on the time members spend reading your stories. The more time they spend reading your stories, the more you earn. Unfortunately, not all countries are eligible for the Partner Program.
Promote Medium membership via personal link. Attach your link to every story; every time somebody signs via your link, you get paid monthly as long as they keep the membership.
Tipping. It is quite a new feature. If you still haven't activated tipping, here is how to do it.
Summary
Although Medium algorithms are a bit of a mystery, the platform is very transparent about the business model. Medium is for the readers and members, and your earnings depend on interactions.

You can increase your Medium earnings by:

Prepare a "bank" of 15–30 stories and keep them as drafts for unexpected situations when you can not write. This way, you can continue publishing.
Publish daily. Consistency beats greatness. But never publish poor-quality stories.
It is not about you; it is about providing value.
Grow the number of fans. It triggers the algorithms and helps with distribution.
Use tags effectively. Mix up to 5 popular and less popular tags. The first tag is the most important
Submit stories to pubs for better reach
Interact with writers, fans, and your audience. The Medium business model is based on interactions
Analyze important metrics (views, reads, fans, etc.) to improve your writing and earnings
Create lists of your stories and share them with readers under each story
Grow your following. It will help you with distribution and earnings
Share your membership link in every story. It will help you with recurring income
Utilize all three types of writing on Medium
Make sure you activated the latest tipping feature
Put your audience first and provide value
Do you know any methods on how to increase earnings on Medium?

Discover more stories and support Medium writers and me by joining here. For only $5 a month, you get unlimited access to all articles on Medium.