I’ve Doubled My Medium Earnings Again!
Does the data support what I’ve always believed to be a myth?

Image by cottonbro
Back at the beginning of November, I announced I’d noticed a trend with my earnings: whenever I was active for two consecutive months, my earnings doubled.

I would have dismissed this as coincidental, if it weren’t for all the stories I’ve read that practically guarantee readers that they’ll achieve the same results — as long as they’re consistent. I was sceptical, but there was no harm in keeping my eyes open, right?

Do Medium Earnings Really Grow Exponentially?
My recent experiences suggest that the advice might be right
medium.com

Now, it’s probably important to point out that we’re not quite talking about life changing sums, yet. My monthly earnings went from a meagre $5 to $10, then $20. Each month, the additional earnings came more easily, so I began to wonder if this trend suggested there might be truth in what I’ve always thought of as a myth.

After all, $40 is an amount I’d genuinely find useful, and then who wouldn’t want an extra $80 to start the new year? So I tentatively set a ‘target’ of $40 for November, with no real expectations.

Half way through the month, I decided to write a progress report. Were my earnings on track?

Are My Earnings on Track?
Dispelling — or proving — a persistent Medium myth
medium.com

They were, kind of. I’d made just over $16, so short of the $20 I’d have hoped to reach by that point. But my output hadn’t been consistent with that of the previous month. Two stories were short form, and I’d been writing for my own publication, with a smaller but growing audience.

So, in other words, I was almost where I’d hoped to be, but it had been easier than expected. The differences make it hard to prove or disprove the alleged phenomenon, but I was starting to take it more seriously.

How about now?
If the headline wasn’t a big enough clue — I’ve done it! For the first time ever I’ve hit the $40 mark on Medium, and I’ve done it with 5 days to spare.

So that’s it, right? I’ve proven the myth is, actually, scientific fact — we can all go to bed safe in the knowledge that if we keep doing what we’re doing we’ll all be billionaires inside two years (I’ve done the math).

Clearly, no. Last month I made $20 dollars with just 9 stories, whereas this month I’ve almost doubled my output, with 17 new stories appearing on my profile so far. I’ve written twice as much, and earned twice as much. Case closed.

So, I’ve disproved it then?
Again, no. Not really. I mean, yes, I’ve proved our earnings won’t magically and specifically double, regardless of anything else — but I don’t think anyone ever believed that. What I mean is, there are some encouraging results that can be used to guide us in the direction of ever-increasing figures.

I’ve long heard people advocating for consistency on this platform, but it turns out I didn’t really understand why. I’d always assumed it was linked to the more you write, the more stories you have for people to find type of advice — but no one ever really read anything of mine more than a few weeks old, so would it really make that much of a difference?

Yes, as it turns out. This month, for the first time, I’ve earn from more than just my most recent articles. This can be partly explained by the fact several older, evergreen stories now appear in my publication. But there are many more forgotten articles inexplicably bringing in the pennies — 47 at the most recent count.

It seems the more active you are, the more curious people get about your older work. And it makes sense. Do you ever scroll through the profile of a writer you’ve just come across for the first time? Or do you normally reserve that level of interest for writers who just seem to keep popping up?

This helps to explain why my earnings per story were roughly the same when they shouldn’t have been. Remember: half of this month’s stories were written to attract an audience, not for an existing one. I haven’t simply put twice the number of stories in front of the same eager eyes. With five days to go, I also haven’t finished earning, and wouldn’t be surprised to hit $50.

Then there’s efficiency
Yes, I’ve doubled my output. But that doesn’t mean I’ve worked twice as hard. I’ve probably spent more time writing, but nowhere near twice the amount. One thing continually writing has taught me is how to better recognise when it’s time to publish. I’ve always been one to agonise over tiny details that ultimately don’t affect the experience of the read one little bit. 
Jacob Flanders
 explains the dilemma perfectly in this story (using the unlikely — but surprisingly perfect — metaphor of a dandelion).

But it’s one thing to agree with the sentiment, and another to put it into practice. Writing, publishing, writing more, publishing again — only in the repetitive, practical application of advice I’ve long believed, have I begun to experience the benefits.

What’s next?
Honestly, I thought there was a good chance if I worked hard I might make $40, but I was sure I’d find out in the process that this was roughly the limit I was personally able to earn — no new targets for December.

And there probably won’t be, either. December brings Christmas, and two weeks of wonderful ,distracting children around my ankles all day. But I haven’t been convinced that this is the plateau, as I’d expected. It’s foggy up here, at such a dizzying height, so nothing is clear — but I just can’t shake the feeling there’s more.

I intend to keep things ticking over for the festive period, maybe aim to beat $40 with a little less work — wouldn’t that be nice? But then, in January, I’m going all out. Doubling my earnings yet again could well be too steep an incline, but the fabled £100 club is within reach.