Medium Earnings and the Power of Compounding
Compounding is so powerful it is at the basis of Casino math, and you know the house always wins — as do you on Medium.

The power of compounding is one of the most powerful forces in existence. In fact, that’s why the Martingale betting system on Casinos doesn’t work, and even what seems to be a mathematical certainty fails you on behalf of the house.

Compounding is also what makes the richer get richer… wealth brings more wealth? Not really, it’s more a matter of investments brings more wealth, but they are compounding with all of the previous investments.

On Medium, you can get compounding, that huge force, working for you, earning you top dollar month after month — and all you need is a solid working method.


Medium Puts the Power of Compounding Earning You $USD:
What do you compound on Medium?

Your articles!
Each article you write adds to the list of articles you’ve already written, and each article you write adds another potential income stream to the multiple streams coming out of Medium towards your wallet.

Granted, not all of your articles will get you earnings, but more articles means more income streams and more possibilities to earn INDEFINITELY!

Each blog post you make is potentially infinite and can keep earning you money for a long time — potentially, all of your life and more.


Compound Your Way to Internet Riches:
The path to Internet Riches is therefore clear. You start out weak, with a couple of posts earning you close to nothing, but even if you make some cents they constitute an income stream.

Add more pieces to the mix and you’ll be multiplying those streams. Keep on writing every day, every week or every month and you’ll slowly compound your Medium Real Estate into giving you more and more.

It’s the unlimited power of compounding!


Medium Articles: Write More, Earn Big, Rinse & Repeat!
Keeping in mind that on Medium everything you write adds up to everything you’ve written, it’s easy to see that you CANNOT fail if you keep on adding more pieces to your portfolio.

The speed at which compounding tips scales to your favor depends on how fast you can pump out those (good) articles.

So, write more, keep on earning, rinse and repeat… it’s brainlessly easy now that you think about it right?

Only one thing remaining…

Are You Motivated Now? Get to Writing!
I wrote this post to show you how easy it is to succeed if you just keep on working towards your goals.

I hope you got motivated by this article… if that is the case, I just ask you to start writing another post for your portfolio right now, because motivation is fleeting, but work is permanent and it only gets finished if you start it.

Keep on writing, don’t despair, don’t fall trap to laziness or procrastination, and most important of all — keep compounding.