How I More Than Doubled My Medium Earnings In November
Consistency Is Key

Photo by Alexander Mils on Unsplash
I’ve been writing on Medium since April of 2020. At first I was super excited, but I quickly gave up. Why? Well, I had to put more focus into my YouTube channel which was at the time about 3000 followers. While I was a part of the Medium Partner Program and I earned money, I did write some articles here and there every single month. It wasn’t until September of 2021 when I decided to put in more effort into my Medium career. Let me explain how what I did and how I more than doubled my earnings.

Focus on what I enjoy
There are certain niches that tend to go viral and do well in terms of earnings, but I wanted to focus on writing about what I personally enjoy. I continued to write articles about tech, but also write articles about EV’s too as they have recently been gaining my attention. I’ll also sometimes write about articles on how to earn money and certain side hustles so I can also help with anyone who is interested on making money online. It is tough, but possible.

Publish more articles

Author’s Articles for September
In September of 2021, I wrote 5 articles. That doesn’t sound like a lot, right? That is about one article per week.


Author’s Articles for October
In October, I wrote literally one article a week for a total of 4 articles.


Author’s Earnings For One Article
It was one of my articles in September, “Pixel 5a One Month Later” that went semi viral with over 19.4K views and made over $25. With a total of more than $31 dollars in October, I decided to focus on publishing more articles for November. Just to clarify, I didn’t put more effort into getting accepted into big publications or write longer articles. I wrote as much as I felt was enough and whatever made me happy. While writing into bigger publications can potentially grow your income, I just wanted to write more articles and naturally gain a following.

You know what? It worked!


Author’s Stats
As I write this article, I have more than 304 followers and I have gained more than 140 followers in the month of November alone and I would like to thank each and everyone of you for supporting my articles!


Author’s Earnings For 3 Months
Now writing a total of 13 articles in November (which is about 1 article every other day) earned me $77.76 and one referred member earning of $2.27 for a total of $80.03!!! I more than doubled my Medium Earnings from October!! It seems that for me, writing more articles and writing about subjects I enjoy is what made this possible!

So, what is next?
Well, I plan on publishing at least one article every single week day and if possible one article on both Saturday and Sunday, too. I might have to plan ahead as well if I need to leave and travel too. I’ll have to be proactive for sure. I already have about 10 articles in my drafts which means 10 days!!

Back when I first started in April of 2020 and I had earned $0.02, I thought I would never see the day of making more than $50 in one month, let alone $10. But here I am with earning almost $100. While $80 isn’t a lot, it proves that I can earn more with the more work I put into my writing!!!