Who Needs 100 Followers?
Apparently, we all do. So read this.
I’m going to do something radical. Something rebellious. Something so revolutionary, it will come as a shock to many around here.

I — a Top 1,000 Writer — am going to help other writers on this site. And I’m not even going to try to sell anything in the process.


If you’re unaware, Meaty-um (just say it out loud) announced some changes to their Partner Program.

Starting in 2022, writers will need 100 followers to remain in the MPP.

One hundred followers may seem like a low bar to clear if you’re a writer with hundreds or thousands of followers.

But I can assure you, for some writers, it’s not that easy.

And that’s a shame — because this site has some great features, particularly for new writers.

Two of those features drew me here over a year ago:

1) The ability to self-publish — without delay — whatever I wanted. After spending months submitting short fiction to websites that would take weeks or months only to tell me, “No thanks,” it was a thrill to self-publish a short story right after I finished writing (and editing) it.

2) Getting paid for my work. Even if it was pennies on the dollar, getting paid something — anything — for my writing was an enormous psychological boost. It gave me confidence that my writing had value. And it’s what kept me writing.

In turn, I want other writers to keep writing. I don’t want them obsessing over this new, contrived hurdle of 100 followers and thinking to themselves, “I’ll never get there, so I might as well give up.”

So here’s what I’m going to do.

If you’re a writer with fewer than 100 followers, leave a comment on this post. You can add a link to one of your posts or just say ‘hi’. Either way, I’ll follow you — and I’ll see if I can encourage some friends to do the same.

At its best, this site is a vibrant community of writers and readers sharing common interests. At its worst, it’s like most of the internet: greedy, mad, and sensational.

Let’s see if we can’t make it a little more like the former and less like the latter?

And remember: It’s a hand-up, not a handout.

So don’t be shy!