100 Followers In 24 Hours? Challenge Accepted
Introduction

Having 100 followers is a big deal on any platform, especially on Medium. Since I run a YouTube channel with 33.5K subscribers, I believe that the first 100 subscribers were the most challenging milestone.

I started my journey on Medium this week. I have already written two articles. And I have lots of ideas to share with the community. I am eager to publish my knowledge and make it public. Isn’t that what being a human being means?


Photo by Myriam Jessier on Unsplash
This is my plan to reach 100 followers

1. Interacting with the community

Some people have more than 200 followers on Medium without publishing one single story. They weren’t even asking for followers. All they have done is be active readers. When they read an article, they leave a response.

Being active is a good strategy for two reasons. First, people read responses. The majority of people (including you and me) read responses after finishing reading the article. If the response is interesting, it will win you followers.

The response should add value to the article. It must be either informing, inspiring, controversial, or just funny. Indeed, a person who has a good point of view will get noticed by the community. A great response could be quoted in other writers’ articles.


Photo by ROBIN WORRALL on Unsplash
Secondly, if the response is kind and respectful, the writer will also follow you. Many of us followed other people just because their response to our article was pleasant. Being a nice person is always rewarding.

2. Asking for support

Do not be shy! The medium community is very kind and supportive. If you need followers, say it. However, you should know when to ask for followers.

First, you can ask people to follow you in this article. Type a persuasive and kind response, and you will get many followers (myself included). But be a good person and “bestow the same kindness and courtesy that you’re requesting on others” — 
Vanessa Hinojosa


Photo by John Cameron on Unsplash
Second, look for similar articles and ask people to follow you. Read the response. If it shows that the person could be interested, ask her/him kindly to follow you.

3. Bringing your initial community into Medium

The majority of Medium writers started their journey on other platforms. Do you have a community of readers on Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, Quora, etc.? Ask them to join you on Medium.

Ask your friends and colleagues to do the same. It is warming to have your closest people following you on Medium. Ask for their support, and they will gladly follow you.


Photo by dole777 on Unsplash
Conclusion

I have done this on other platforms, and I read many of your beautiful articles. I will try to transform this experience and knowledge into 100 followers in 24 hours. Tomorrow, I will talk about the challenge no matter what the outcomes are.