Hack To Get 100 Followers In One Week
If you are desperate

Photo by Luis Morera on Unsplash
How to get 100 followers in a week, sounds simple right? Well, I am here to tell you it is; I have done it, which means you can too.

If you are coming to the December 31st deadline when reading this article and are desperate to get your 100, then continue reading. However, if you have plenty of time, please stop reading and click on the article below, as this will be better suited for you.

Do I Need More Than 100 Followers?
Yes and No
medium.com

So time is running out, and you need 100 followers, quickly, there are several things you can do, I will, however, warn you what I am about to tell you is a short term tactic only if you continue to use this past 100 followers, you will not get much back from them in return.

The issue with this hack is these followers may not have any real interest in you or your work, so you will get very limited if any benefit from them at all. So I would always suggest, build your followers slowly and get to know them; if you do this, it will pay dividends in the long run.

Hack One

Follow 100 people a day, yes, simple following 700 people over a week should give you a 10% return, so you should get around 70 people following you back during the seven days you spent following other Medium members.

Hack Two

Write two articles a day for seven days and publish them to a publication, and their followers will see your article; if they like it, they will likely start to follow you.

Hack Three

Join a publication that will help you when you are brand new to the platform or understand the struggles people have to increase their following.

Supporting Each Other
We can grow together
medium.com

Hack Four

Clap and respond to other peoples work; the more you interact, the more you will get people to look at your profile and follow you.

Hack Five

Join a good Facebook group and interact with other members within this group; people normally feel safe talking about their articles and followers and tend to follow you after just a couple of interactions.

Facebook Groups
New Writers Welcome has 33 members. New Writers Welcome; I have started this publication to help new writers on the…
www.facebook.com.

You should never beg or ask for people to follow you, this is not cool, and Medium will not tolerate this behaviour.

Please let me know how you get on in the comments section; I wish you the very best and look forward to hearing from you.

Join my YouTube channel

Written by Robert Ralph

Buy me a Ko-fi

Join Medium here (affiliate link)