I Made It past 100 Followers — And I Wish I Hadn’t
How making it into the Medium Partnership Programme ruined everything for me

Photo by Melanie Deziel on Unsplash
I Made it to 100 followers — and I wish i hadn’t bothered

I did it. I made it to one hundred followers. The hallowed ground. I am now at the stage where I am eligible to make it into the Medium Partnership Programme.

Pretty cool huh?

Well, no not really. It has been a massive disappointment and I even think my writing has suffered for it. But we’ll get to that in a minute.

I’m sure you will have seen the posts. How to get to 100 followers in 4 minutes, My guaranteed strategy for getting followers, or Follow me, and I’ll follow you back. Please don’t listen to these posts, please don’t chase followers, it’s just not worth it.

I spent some time following writers that I liked and had the same interest as. Many of them followed me back. When people commented on my articles, I took the time to read them and comment on the ones I liked. In a nutshell, I was interacting with the community in a meaningful way. However, that all changed when I went past one hundred followers.

Obsessed with the statistics

I stopped caring about the words and started caring about the stats.

I spent less time reading what other people were writing and more time looking at who was reading my work.

Why is nobody reading my writings? Why is nobody engaging with me? How can I promote my work to more people?

None of these were things that mattered to me before the one hundred mark. Now it was all that I could focus on. Why? Because I wanted to make money. I had read other writers sharing the screenshots of their earnings. They were clearing a couple of hundred or even a thousand per article.

I was nowhere near that. I don’t think I ever will be (although I would love to). This was never the goal when I started writing for Medium. The goal was sharing and personal growth. Getting past one hundred changed that for me.

Medium just brings me jealousy now. I used to be proud of what I had written. Now I’m not. I judge it against other people and it just makes me sad.

Changed my reading habits

When I first subscribed, I wanted to read about health, marketing, productivity strategies, and life hacks. I wanted to learn more about things. Anything. Side-hustles, crypto, or one of the many other topics that are covered regularly here.

Now? All I read is writing tips. How to get more readers. How to make more money on Medium. How to get more followers. Getting past one hundred has ruined it for me.

I want to go back and engage with the topics I did before, but I can’t. I am obsessed with making my writing better (and by better I mean making more money). This is not why I started writing.

My focus has been pulled from the things that I wanted to learn. I now focus on things I think I need to learn to make more from my writing. I wish I could go back to the way things were before, but I cannot.

Affected my writing

I feel that my writing style has changed as my time on Medium has passed. This is due to joining the Partner Programme. I write an article, it gets hardly any engagement, and I start trying to analyze why this is.

Don’t get me wrong, I am happy to reflect and improve. In this case, I am trying to get better to make more money.

I am looking at articles that are on similar themes to mine, seeing their headlines, looking at their style, then trying to be more like that. I am more focused on getting the engagement than I am on telling my story or message.

I am sure that some people would be fine with this, but I am not. That is not why I started writing. I never wanted to treat Medium as a side hustle, but that is what it has become (it is at least now “an attempt” at a Side Hustle)

I have tried writing on different topics, different headlines, and different styles to see how that affected my engagement.

None of it has.

My engagement is still low.

Whereas before I was treating Medium as a way to share my experiences and stories, it is now a daily disappointment as I feel I am underperforming.

Final Thoughts

Depending on your goals, don’t try and hurry past the one hundred follower mark. If your writing is good enough (I have learned that mine is not), the numbers will come. I tried to get there as quickly as possible and it has ruined the Medium experience for me. Before I enjoyed writing and sharing things about my life. Now I am only focused on the stats and money. As both of these are minimal, it just means that I feel that either I am not good enough or nobody is interested. On the plus side, for my twenty-seven articles and two hundred and twenty(ish) followers, I am $3 richer.

If you enjoyed this, then i’m sure you’ll like some of my other articles. You can get them delivered to your inbox, just click here. Secondly, if you find that you like Medium, consider signing up for a membership. It only costs $5, and it helps support the community. Full disclosure, I will get a portion of your fee if you use this link, but it won’t cost you anymore. If you do decide to use it, thank you.

