100 Followers Challenge: Can we help each other?
If you are a regular reader or writer on Medium, you will surely realize why 100 followers are essential for a writer on Medium.
100 followers on Medium.com
100 followers challenge on Medium.com, Photo by Sunayan Chakma
To Be Honest!

While I’m writing this article, my follower number is zero. And I really should not advise others like How to Get 100 Followers in just 24hrs or Something else. But I have a good idea to share with you all!

If you read this article seriously, I will assume that you are also struggling to meet the 100 followers quota. If so, welcome, my friend!

We can help each other. Okay, let me explain to you HOW in detail.

I hope you already got my point. To simply put, we can follow each other, right? Win-Win!

I never hesitate if someone asks me to follow him struggling with a 100 followers quota. Because I feel even a single number is so significant.

Things That We Probably Can Do:

Please support me by following, and don’t forget to leave a simple comment below the comment section to follow you back. Would you mind putting your brief introduction? It makes sense when we get to know each other.
Distribute this article to your friends (Who are struggling like us) and convince them to join us. In this way, we can create an extensive network among us. As a result, it will be easier to fill 100 followers.
Find the articles of your choice in the search box. Read and clap them and leave a constructively positive comment because we can learn more through positive words.
If you disagree with someone’s judgment, praise the good aspects of their writing before you criticize them directly. Then give an opinion in favor of your disagreement with respect. Those who are advanced writers will accept it positively.
Don’t ignore anyone who discusses or comments with you. That means you have to be engaged with the readers.
Search by putting 100 followers on Medium. And I hope you find more valuable articles.
Write trending issues and spread them on social media sites.
Be creative and produce worthful articles at all.
By the way, I’m stopping here. If you have more to share on this topic, don’t forget to share in the comments. I am eager to hear them.

Let’s get introduced! Here is my brief introduction.

Did you ever discover the name the Chittagong Hill Tracts, shortly known as CHT? I am Sunayan Chakma from CHT, Bangladesh. It’s located in the southeastern part of the country. At least 13 small ethnic groups like Chakma, Marma, Tripura, etc., and I belong to the Chakma community.

I prefer to write the stories of the daily life of the people of the marginal villages in the CHT. I am also very interested in writing and reading about web design and development and various online income. That’s all for short.

Now It’s your turn. I love to hear from you. All the best.