Calling Everybody With Less Than 100 Followers. Don’t Give Up, I’m Here To Help You.
I’m not talking about promoting on social media. I’m giving you some basic ways that anybody can do without a following.

When I first started on Medium I was a nervous wreck. I assumed everyone would ignore me because I was brand new and I had zero followers. The fear of my work being ridiculed because I had barely any writing experience filled me with endless amounts of anxiety.

I had to physically psyche myself up to press publish. I remember thinking, what’s the point nobody is engaging with me whatsoever. I was just about ready to give up when I shut that inner bully inside me up and vowed to keep going. I couldn’t keep running away when things weren’t going my way.

So I persevered, and now I have over 2000 followers. This has taken me around five months, and you can do it too. It’s not going to be instant, but if you are consistent and avoid giving up it will definitely happen for you.

I’ve only achieved this amount of followers through Medium. I read tons of articles, and some of them seemed great like

How I made over 3 thousand followers on medium in a month

And I thought WOW how exciting, I’m going to follow every step. However, then I realised that these people already have a massive social media following and I don’t, so I immediately gave up reading.

I do have Twitter and Pinterest, and I’ll be honest, I neglect my Pinterest a hell of a lot, I think I only have 20 followers on that site whereas Twitter I have over 700, but that’s only because

When I first started on Twitter I wrote statuses every hour of the day and engaged and commented on everybody’s posts

But after a while, it became a little taxing. I noticed that when I would take a break, suddenly nobody was engaging with me and it took ages to strike up conversations again, so now I barely use it. I probably should but to be honest, I’m kind of lazy when it comes to social media.

I also have anxiety, so it’s difficult for me to communicate with everybody every day out of fear of embarrassing myself and saying the wrong things.

Occasionally I will promote some of my articles on Twitter, sometimes people will click and read them, but most of the time I fade into the background.

So my following on medium has literally been from medium only. If anybody has found me through my Twitter, I wouldn’t even know about it because I barely use it but thank you so much anyway.

So all that being said, I’m going to show you all the ways I’ve managed to gain my 2000 followers using medium only. These are easy, basic ways and nothing too fancy at all.

Number 1- Read, Read, Read and then Read some more
The whole point of Medium is to read others articles. If you want to find a following you need to read articles that you feel you can connect with the most.

If you want to grow a following for your particular niche, then you should follow and read similar people’s work.

So let’s say you write about animals, don’t go ahead and read and engage with a topic about cars because that’s nothing to do with animals, and the author will probably look at your profile and see you write nothing about cars so they might not bother following you.

However, you can choose to write about lots of different things. I write about mental health, writing, and life in general, so I can read and engage with lots of different people.

Number 2- Comment on Stories
Once you’ve found a particular article you want to read, don’t just read and move on, you need to leave a comment but avoid the old

“Hey, great article. Thanks for sharing.”

You should write, meaningful comments

So something like this……

“Thank you so much for this thought-provoking article. What you said really spoke to me and made me feel less alone. I’m so glad I found you and I feel we can help each other. I also have some tips of my own that I hope can help you too. Please stop by my profile to read my take on the subject. Thank you again, I’ll look forward to reading more from you, keep writing you’re amazing.”

Something like that can really show the author that you appreciate the time and the effort it took to write that article, especially if it was very personal and they found it difficult to put into words.

You’ve not only shown that you appreciate them, but you’ve also invited them to take a look at your work, and if any others read that comment, then that’s even more eyes on your stories which will, in turn, lead to more followers.

Number 3- Leave lots of claps
It can be so disheartening to know that people are reading your stories, but instead of engaging with you, they’re just reading and leaving.

Claps are a great way to show your support, and it can make the author feel so happy to know that people enjoy their work.

If I enjoyed an article, I usually go all out and leave the maximum amount of claps, and that’s 50. If you do that, the author will receive a notification saying so and so applauded you, and that’s amazing.

By leaving comments and claps, people will be curious to see who you are and will happily follow and engage with you.

Number 4- Follow 50 people or more a day
This is a little hack I learned when I first began.

I’m not saying go out and follow a bunch of random people but take the time to find your people. So, people you feel you can connect with.

You will have similar stories, the same hobbies, maybe they’ve made you laugh or left funny comment on people’s articles.

Follow people you know you will enjoy reading and connecting with.

So by following 50 or more people every single day and engaging with them, you’ll definitely receive a bunch of follows back.

Number 5- Promote stories on social media
If you have them that is. If a story really speaks to you, then consider sharing it on Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, or anything that you use.

The author will really appreciate it and you may gain afew more follows by doing this.

Number 6- Tag stories
If your writing an article about let's say depression…

Tag a story which has helped you. So it could be another author’s stories about different tips they have that you know your readers will appreciate.

By tagging different writers and promoting their articles, if they haven’t already followed you, they sure will now because you’re helping them reach more people, and let’s be honest, you look so amazing.

Number 7- Publications
Getting accepted into these may seem daunting, but it’s not. Find a publication that you feel you could engage with and provide some input

Try and find ones that are active and accepting new writers.

By using publications, your stories will be viewed by lots of different people, which will mean more and more followers for you.

If you want to grow an even bigger following, then why not create your own publication. Pick a particular niche and invite writers to join. You will be surprised how many followers you receive once they see you’re the author of a brand new publication.

Number 8- Write consistently
Write whenever you can. The more you take the time to write, the more you will see the benefits. Try to write at least once a day if you can.

However, sometimes that’s not possible as we all have our own lives and we can’t be glued to the screen 24/7

So I try to write every other day If I can. If not, then I’ll make sure I write one or more articles a week, and that’s fine.

You want to be consistent, but you also don’t want to burn out. So try to write whenever you can, and you will see results.

It all takes time, patience is the key.

Now we know how I’ve achieved all my followers. I want to help you all as well. I’ve taken a look at both of my publications and selected afew people which have less than 100

So you can follow some of these amazing people and receive follow backs in the process.

If I’ve missed your name, then please comment and I’ll edit this article and add your name to this list. Once you manage to receive your 100, I will erase your name to make room for more writers.

Go ahead and follow these amazing people 👇👇👇