GAIN THE ADVANTAGE!
I Can Help You Find Your 100 Followers — So You Can Relax
No need to freak out about the new rules — I’ve got a plan

Image created in Canva.com by the Author
That’s me putting my nose in your business! Cute eh?

It’s not like I’m bored and have nothing else to do (hell no…), but I feel compelled to help newer writers on the platform because it wasn’t that long ago that I was sweatin’ it, trying to figure this all out too.

I also made myself a promise to help others get a leg up; once I learned the ropes…so here I am.

First off, if you’ve written a few articles but need more Medium followers before Dec 31st, 2021 to meet the new requirements — writing articles about how unfair the changes in the Medium Partner Program are won’t help.

Extra glasses of ‘whine’ won’t do you much good either.

In fact, it’ll only have you stumbling…

If you don’t have 100 Medium followers and have no clue what I’m talking about; you’d best read these updated terms from Medium put in place on Aug 11, 2021, and then finish reading this :)

Here’s the paragraph I’m referring to if you don’t have time to read all the details above right now:


Screen Shot from Mediums Email dated Aug 11, 2021

As you can see, Medium upped the ante if you want to get paid for your writing.

And even if you can skip the application process because you’re grandfathered in as a member of the MPP, you still need 100 followers by Dec 31st to stay in the game.

This article wasn’t at the top of my list to write this week, but I couldn’t help myself after reading another story calling on top writers and big publications to help them out.

I’m neither of those things, BTW, but I’m doing well on Medium and recently started a new publication called Boomerangs for writers over 50 on the rebound.

As it turns out, quite a few of our own ‘excellent writers’ still need those 100 followers by the end of the year, so I’m on a quest to help them out as well.

Let’s get this thing done together, so you can start earning money right away and have extra cashola for Christmas instead of worrying about this new December deadline!


Won’t it be nice to get this behind you? Then you can relax and get on with your writing.

Oh, and aim for a bit bigger number than the required 100 while you’re at it.

Mostly because Medium randomly purges followers if they are determined to be fake/bots or go inactive for six months. We never know when that will happen, so it can set you back in a big way if you aren’t aware.

Be sure you’re doing these things listed below as well, and then read on to see my plan to help out…

Do Your Part
I’ll assume you’re doing your best to write solid articles, and you follow the Medium Rules — you know, like actually read them! Format your titles and subtitles correctly, check your grammar, choose good quality images and credit them.

I’m not talking perfection when you’re starting out, but learn how the platform works (click your profile photo to find the help center) and set up your profile properly while you’re at it.

Interact on the Platform
Read baby read!

The very best way to find your peeps is to read stuff you like!

Then take a second to clap for the story. Oh, and remember, this isn’t Facebook. One clap does not equate to a ‘Like.’ You can clap up to 50 times, depending on how impressed you are with an article. Clap a bit, applaud or give them all 50 for a standing ovation.

Now take it to the next level and comment on the article.

Why?

Because, as writers, we know ‘crickets’ suck!

We sit and stare at our stats and notifications, hoping to hear from someone— have we made an impact with our work? You know you do it :) Then, seconds after hitting publish, we hold our breath, hoping someone will read our work.

But God, when someone takes the time to respond with a compliment or relates and learns something valuable, well, the heavens open up! And that makes it all worthwhile — right?

So… do it for someone else first; pay it forward and see what happens next.

You’ll make their day, and they’ll remember your name. They’ll click on your profile to see who you are, they’ll read a story or two, and usually, they’ll follow you back.

Chances are, if you like their work, you’ll have something in common. That’s how you build your own little tribe!

Art Bram
, the other fabulous editor for Boomerangs, is so passionate about this step that he wrote an article about it for our writers. I have to say; it’s making a difference —so, thank you, Art!

Attention to Our Boomerangs Writers
Let’s connect to build an awesome community
medium.com

So you guys do your part, and here’s what I’ll do for you in return…


Get started by choosing one, two, or all three of these steps below, and let’s make this happen!

Step One — Talk to Me
Respond to this story and let me know you need help getting your 100 followers. Then tell me the one thing you’re struggling with most on the platform.

Is it titles/ subtitles?

Formatting maybe?

Ideas for your articles?

Maybe you’re on top of everything, but you still need followers to qualify, that’s cool too.

Whatever it is, tell me, and I’ll do my part by looking up your profile and reading some of your stories. I’ll even offer you a tip or two if I see something obvious that will help move you forward.

Oh, and I’ll follow you!

Do remember I don’t have super powers (well, not ones I can tell you about) but I’ll do my best to empower you!


Step Two — Writing Prompt
Write a story introducing yourself. Give us a wee bit of background (keep this part short and sweet, 3–4 minute reads— don’t write biographies) and answer a few of these questions for me…

“Why did you decide to write on Medium?”
What or who inspired you to join the platform?
Is it just an experiment?
Do you want to earn part-time fun money, or do you need more than that?
Is this going to be a part-time hobby thing or a full-time jobby thing?
What do you like to write about?
Who do you hope to inspire with your words?
Title it: My Name is ________— And Liz Dared Me to Write This

Subtitle: (use the small (Tt) I still need 100 followers to meet the new deadline, and I could use your help!

Make sure your personality shows through in your words, and if you want to make it funny or silly, that’s even better! Have some fun with it, and then (at the end)add a link to one of the best stories you’ve already written.

Then self-publish! Yup, just hit that blue button :)

Send me a note that you’ve taken this step because I’ll be writing a recap article linking these stories to get you more reads and followers.

If you’re over the age of 50, read on…


Step Three — For Writers Age 50+
(Update: Jan 2022 ) — Boomerangs isn’t adding new writers or taking submissions until further notice. Please find me here helping my fellow writers instead!

Because I’m a bit partial to my ‘Boomers on the Rebound,’ here’s one more step.

If you already write for Boomerangs — submit your story above, and we’ll publish it right away. If it needs a tweak here and there, we’ve got you covered, but we won’t decline them. Use our tag ‘Baby Boomers’ and write me a private note if you need extra help.

If you aren’t already an approved writer for Boomerangs, but you’re 50+, respond to this article, and I’ll add you on. Then submit your “100 followers” article, and we’ll publish it for you to help find some extra eyeballs!

Interact with our Merry Band of Boomers by reading and commenting on their stories, and we’ll do our best to do the same with your work and follow you back.

I wish you all the best of luck with your quest to 100!

But if you do some of this work now…you won't be needing luck; you’ll have it all wrapped up before Christmas!

Cheers to your success!

Click here if you’d like unlimited access to more of my writing and everything else on Medium. Note: this is an affiliate link, and I will receive a portion of your membership fees.
