I assume that you already know about the Medium Partner Program’s new rules. Starting in 2022, you will need 100 followers to stay in the program. In other words, no 0.01$ per month for writers with less than 100 followers.

In the last 24 hours, I started this challenge: 100 followers in 24 hours. I listed some guidelines that I had to follow. By the end of the day, I had 100 followers. If I did it, you can do it.

P.S. Keep reading until the end. I have a bonus for you.


Photo by Cookie the Pom on Unsplash
Step by step to get 100 followers in 24 hours
1. Find articles

Go to the Medium search bar and type 100 followers. Or find the 100 followers topic listed at the bottom of this article.

You will find many great articles. The most viral ones are: Who Needs 100 Followers? By 
JL Matthews
, and 100 Followers in 1 Week by 
Maria Akinyi
. I also recommend you to read this article, 100 Followers In 24 Hours? Challenge Accepted by 
Ayoub Bouamri

Choose 10 to 20 articles and save them into your reading list.

2. Write a response

Before responding to these articles, open your favorite writing software (MS Word in my case) and write a small paragraph of 3 to 4 lines.


Photo by Glenn Carstens-Peters on Unsplash
First, thank the writer and appreciate her article. Those writers are trying to help you. Be grateful and acknowledge their efforts.

Second, represent yourself. Who you are, and when did you start writing on the platform. That will build trust between you and the reader of your response.

Third, list topics that you will write about. I believe that we can write about different topics. Yet, select only your top 3 or 5 topics.

Fourth, show the community that you bestow the same kindness and courtesy you’re requesting on others.

Example: Thank you 
Ayoub Bouamri
 for this great article. I’ve only been here for a few weeks. I am a doctor, and I talk about science, health, and medicaments. I follow back everyone who follows me.

3. Respond, reply, and clap.

Once your text is ready, go back to the saved articles. Read each article. Clap and leave a response. To take this step further, reply to the responses of people who are looking for followers.


Photo by Ilya Pavlov on Unsplash
4. Follow back

Keep the community strong by following back the writers who followed you.

Bonus
To show you my support, leave a comment on this post, and I will follow you. Together we can build a strong community of writers. Let’s support each other. And as @JL said, “It’s a hand-up, not a handout.”